{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Toby waited until the moon had ducked behind a cloud, then signalled the others to come and meet him at the corner of the orphanage. One by one they slipped like shadows across the lawn and over towards the gate.\
Finch\'92s bedroom looked right over them. Toby stared up at it, watching for movement in the curtains, keeping as still as he could. There was no guarantee that one of them wouldn\'92t get up to go to the toilet and have a quick look out the window as they went back to bed. \
When the five of them had gathered behind him Toby pulled the gate key - lifted off the key-board inside the front door - out of his pocket. In his other hand he had a square of paper with a dollop of lard on it. June had insisted that Duck fat would be perfect, but they didn\'92t have duck that evening and instead Vera had spooned some lard out of a huge jar of the stuff that lived in the cool air at the bottom of the larder.\
He smeared the key in the sticky fat, then very carefully slid it into the lock. Moving it gently around he was hoping that he was spreading the fat over the metal innards of the lock.\
He paused for a moment, looked at Esme. Once he turned the key there was no going back.\
She nodded. Phillip slapped him gently on the back and whispered \'93Come on Toby!\'94\
Toby took a breath and turned the key.\
\
It slid easily around in the lock, silent as a prayer in church. They darted out of the gate and walked as quickly and quietly as they could until they were round the corner and away from the orphanage.\
They had done it - they had escaped Finch for a couple of hours at least. Robin started giggling with delight and Toby had to 
\i shhhhh
\i0  him, even though he felt the same way. Toby couldn\'92t stay stern though and soon he was giggling too. Then all of them were laughing quietly and slapping each other in congratulations.  It felt good to be free, really good.\
For a moment the five of them stood out in the road. The sky was still dark and with blackout curtains up in the surrounding houses and the street lights turned off, it was difficult to see anything until their eyes adjusted to the dark. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 It was quiet too. The trams that rumbled and clanged past the orphanage during the day didn't start until six thirty.\
\'93Come on,\'94 whispered Toby, striding off up the hill, \'93we haven\'92t got a moment to waste.\'94\
This was a route they knew well. It was the way to St Mary\'92s, the parish Church which had sat at the top of Church Hill road for hundreds of years. Every Sunday morning they marched up to it, shouted at and told off by Finch. It was different at night. The houses that lined the street seemed to be sleeping as deeply as their inhabitants and formed a solid line of creepy darkness. Every now and then there was a bombed-out house and smashed walls and roofing timbers stood jagged and sinister, a deeper black against the sky. \
Church Hill wasn't much of a hill at all, more a gentle rise, and soon the five of them were passing the tennis courts at the top and making their way down past the church and towards the Walthamstow Market. They\'92d decided to go to the market because they knew something would be happening there. It was Robin\'92s idea, he liked the market. There was a risk that someone would recognise them but, as Robin said, there wasn't much point in escaping from the Orphanage if all you did was walk around empty streets for a couple of hours. \
\
Soon they could see the flickering glow from kerosene street lamps ahead, a warm bubble of activity in the dark and with a couple of minutes they were standing at the top of the market, just out of the light. \
Hundreds of people were setting up stalls, pulling wooden boxes and baskets off carts, chatting, laughing and shouting. Horses clopped their hooves and shook their heads in the damp morning air, waiting for their owners to take them to the stables in the back streets where they could feed on yesterday's old fruit and vegetables.\
Leading the others, Toby stepped into the circle of light and into the market itself. \
There were plenty of children helping their parents so no one thought it strange that five children were wandering around on their own. For a while they just walked slowly along, taking in the sights and sounds of people setting up their pitches for the day's trading. Because the stalls were jammed so close together there were frequent accidents. Baskets were knocked by careless elbows and produce would spill out onto the main road. Men would shout at the culprit before picking it all up, wiping the dirt off and putting it back on display.\
What struck Toby was how lively it was. It wasn\'92t silent and sad like the orphanage, here there were men shouting out greetings to each other, people disagreeing in colourful language, women sharing an enamel mug of tea and every kind of thing to but that you could imagine. Fish ticked into baskets of ice, all kinds of clothes from work shirts to dresses, kitchen utensils, household goods like candles and soap and mops and buckets. There was a stall that just sold ladders. And another that sold canaries and budgies. Toby saw things in packets in foreign languages, sold by stall owners who were wearing strange clothes and speaking in languages that weren\'92t english. Toby knew what lots of people in Europe had fled to England to escape the Nazi\'92s, but he\'92s never seen any before. \
Toby knew that many of the stall holders had been all the way down to Covent Garden and back already this morning, or come in from Essex for a couple of days, loading up their carts with whatever fruit and vegetables they could get their hands on. \
Collins, the orphanage cook, endlessly complained food was scarce and subject to rationing. But Toby knew there was always a supply of things that cash - and not food coupons - could buy. Robin had told him how it worked and that it was called the \'91Black Market\'92. You could find an orange if you asked the right people, but you'd have to pay a lot for it, so much that you couldn't afford to eat anything else all day. Toby couldn't remember what an orange tasted like.\
Toby watched the market children working with their parents, helping make the family some money before they went to school after breakfast. He felt a pang of loneliness as he watched one dad, his face deeply furrowed with smiley creases, ruffle the hair of a boy, both of them laughing easily at something one of them had said.\
\
They walked further into the market, picking their way through the stalls, down past the library and towards The Carlton cinema, where they stopped and looked at the film posters in the windows. None of them had even seen a movie. Vera and Esme were excited by the posters showing brightly dressed women wearing colourful nylon dresses and sunglasses. Sunglasses? Robin pointed out you would never need those in London. \
Vera laughed at him \'93Don\'92t you know what Hollywood is?\'94\
\'93A village near Romford?\'94 shrugged Robin, \'93A type of tree?\'94\uc0\u8232 A bit further down they stopped, sat down on the front step of a shop, and watched. Toby couldn't have been the only one feeling hungry, as Robin leaned over and whispered to them, \'93We should sneak out and grab some spilled apples.\'94\
\'93That\'92s thieving!\'94 protested Esme.\
\'93No, it\'92s taking advantage of a favourable situation,\'94 said Robin, his eyes bright with mischief.\
Vera turned to Esme, \'93And how long is it since you\'92ve had a good apple, Esme?\'94\
Esme was a very good gardener, but they didn\'92t grow apples at the orphanage\'92s allotment. Esme thought for a minute. \'93Years.\'94\
\'93There you go then!\'94 said Toby.\
\'93That\'92s no excuse to\'85\'94 started Esme before Toby cut her off again. \'93And what\'92s the point of getting out of the Orphanage if we don\'92t do something naughty?\'94\
Esme folded her arms, not prepared to go along with her brother.\
\'93If we\'92re going to be bad we might as well be good and proper bad.\'94 said Vera, backing Toby up.\
As if the question were settled once and for all, and before Esme could pipe up again, Toby pointed back\'a0out into the busy street. \'93There are shadows between the stalls. If we wait there we should be able to pick off the odd apple without being seen.\'94\
\'93Blow that!\'94 said Phillip and before anyone could protest he stood up, walked around the back of an unwatched apple stall and pushed it forward, tipping a few dozen apples into the middle of the road where they started to roll down the gentle slope of the High Street.\
Robin was quickest off the mark, darting across the line of apples he picked up one in each hand and scooted off to the other side of the street. He waved the others forward before vanishing into the darkness of an alley.\
Taking the hint the others followed, each grabbing two apples and running past the stalls\'a0and\'a0into the lanes behind the market. Esme didn\'92t take any, but she made sure to follow the others so she didn\'92t get separated.\
\
The shouts of the angry stall owner bounced up the alley behind them as they ran, but there was no way he would leave his stall unattended long enough to catch them, and he didn\'92t even bother trying.\
They kept running for a hundred yards, their hard shoes clattering on the cobbles. Then they slowed, making their way left and right through the streets until eventually they found themselves up on a quiet street lined with houses.\
Robin laughed, holding up his two apples as if they were made of gold. \
\'93What do we do with them, then?\'94 said Vera.\
\'93Eat them?\'94 suggested Robin, sarcastically.\
\'93We can\'92t eat them all now,\'94 said Toby, \'93we have to give June one.\'94\
\'93Let's eat a couple now and hide the rest in the veggie shed, among the potatoes.\'94 said Vera.\
\'93How will we divide them up?\'94 asked Phillip.\
Robin reached down into his pocket. \'93Look what else I got!\'94 He pulled a curved knife, as long as his hand, from his pocket.\
\'93Gosh!\'94 said Toby, both impressed and frightened at the lethal looking blade.\
\'93Did you steal that?\'94 asked Esme, outraged.\
Robin shrugged, and started to slice one apple into quarters. He gave a slice each to Toby, Phillip and Vera. He held one out for Esme, but she ignored it. \
Toby bit into his quarter. It was beautiful, the sweetest thing he had tasted in a long time. Looking at Esme he handed her half of his share. She smiled at him and took it. They were brother and sister after all and if they didn\'92t look after each other, who would?\
\
\'93Walthamstow Reds.\'94 said Vera.\
\'93What?\'94 said Toby, barely paying her any attention. This was just the usual kind of random thing that Vera said.\
\'93That\'92s the variety of apple. See how they're pink and blotchy on the inside?\'94\
They all looked and sure enough there were splashes of red on the white flesh of the apple.\
\'93They only grow around here. They're local apples. Walthamstow Reds.\'94\
\'93And we got them red-handed!\'94 said Robin.\
It was then that Esme pointed into a house, the curtains in the front room were open a little and a clock was visible on the back wall. \'93Five to seven!\'94\
That shut them up. They had five minutes to get back to the orphanage before the wake-up bell. Five minutes to do a ten minute walk.\
"Come on then, you Walthamstow Reds, let's get back!" said Toby and led them at a trot back to the orphanage.\
They slipped up the stairs to the dorm, where June looked fit to burst with worry, getting there just a minute before the morning bell sounded.\
\
As he sat down to breakfast Toby had to admit he felt good. It wasn't just the thrill of doing something naughty, they had done something for themselves. He knew already that they would be taking more trips out of the Orphanage. \
It might mean they would get into trouble, but looking around the table at the glowing faces there, he realised that 'The Walthamstow Reds' would be right behind him.}