{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Toby sat with his head in his hands, looking down at his cold plate of porridge. Even if he closed his eyes he couldn\'92t get rid of Finch, he could still hear Finch\'92s weasely voice droning on and on, saying the same things he said every day. It was like Finch was a pesky wasp buzzing around the inside of your head. There was no way to get rid of him.\
Toby looked around the table - the others from the attic dorm looked as miserable as he did. June, Robin, Phillip, Vera and his twin sister, Esme. He caught Esme\'92s eye and she shook her head at him, trying to remind him that if he did anything to interrupt Finch he would get the strap. \
Just like he had yesterday.\
And the day before that.\
Toby rolled his eyes and managed to keep quiet. His left hand hurt so much he couldn\'92t bear to think about getting the strap again. \
He couldn\'92t say what he wanted to say, or laugh at the wrong moment or do anything that Finch or his wife, Bertie, standing with her arms crossed beside him, could punish him for. Toby had to watch and stay perfect still.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Finch was tall and thin and with his vicar\'92s coat on he looked like a liquorice stick. His movements were erratic and angular, like a broken wind-up doll, and as he spoke small missiles of spit shot off his lip and onto the floor in front of him. \
Bertie was wider than she was tall, and wore huge flowing white shirts and skirts than made her look like a dollop of cream. Despite her feminine dresses she radiated menace like a furnace - her face eternally flushed pink and her mouth was an angry slit that seldom unclenched. \
Together they looked like a comedy act, Finch bouncing around like a manic budgie and Bertie still as a statue. And they would have been funny if they didn\'92t have complete control over the children\'92s lives.\
Finch was onto his favourite theme now. He told the children that they were 
\i useless
\i0  and 
\i unwanted
\i0 , that they were 
\i parentless
\i0  and had 
\i no chance of making anything of their short and miserable lives
\i0 . And, what\'92s more, it was 
\i entirely their own fault
\i0 . \
It wasn\'92t just that what he said was so horrible, it was the way he said it. He delivered each sentence like it was a punch, like each word was meant to hurt the children, to put them in their place. \
Worse that that, Finch enjoyed being horrible. You could see it on his shiny face, in his crooked, fleshy smile, in the way he glanced at Toby, almost challenging Toby to do something so he could have the pleasure of punishing him again.\
Toby clenched his teeth together and stayed dead still. He wouldn\'92t give Finch the satisfaction, not today.\
\
After a breakfast of cold porridge and tepid black tea the children of the orphanage all went back to their dorms and had five minutes to brush their teeth and wash before the day\'92s work begun.\
As soon as June closed the door behind them Robin started to laugh.\
\'93Toby, you should have seen your face!\'94 he said. \'93Like a proper storm.\'94\
\'93The man\'92s a bully.\'94 muttered Toby. \
\'93He\'92s also the headmaster,\'94 said Vera, \'93So he can do what he wants.\'94\
June, who had stayed standing by the door, lost in thought, said, \'93You know what he says is true. We are parentless and unwanted.\'94\
\'93It\'92s not that,\'94 said Esme, \'93It\'92s the way he says things, isn\'92t that right Toby?\'94\
Toby threw his arms in the air, \'93It\'92s just so unfair! We have to do things his way, there\'92s no way out.\'94\
Vera turned to Toby and pointed her toothbrush at him, \'93Don\'92t forget we\'92re the lucky ones. There are plenty of orphans who are out on the street. Plenty who are living off scraps and begging.\'94\
\'93That\'92s exactly what he says!\'94 said Toby.\
\'93And there\'92s less and less to beg for.\'94 said Esme, holding out the tin of tooth powder to hn. \'93This is the seventh year of the war, there\'92s not much charity left out there.\'94\
Toby put out his brush for a sprinkling of the gritty powder. \'93I know I know. I just wish there was something we could do. Some way we could have some fun, have an adventure.\'94\
\'93Hold still!\'94 said Esme, who was following Toby\'92s toothbrush around with the tin, trying not to spill any.\
Phillip, who was already brushing his teeth, said something but it got lost between the paste, the toothbrush and his mouth.\
\'93What?!\'94 said Robin.\
\'93Beg your pardon!\'94 said June, correcting Robin\'92s manners.\
Phillip took a mouthful of water and then spat it into the sink, \'93An adventure, that would be great. Like an army thing.\'94\
Phillip loved war comics and had a pile under his bed. Everyone else was sick of the war, sick of having to put blackout curtains up, sick of not ever having any sugar, or proper toothpaste, but Phillip still read his war comics with glee. \
They seemed to be the one thing that wasn\'92t affected by rationing. Every month or so Collins, the cook, would plank a big pile of them on the dining table and the kids who were interested could help themselves. Most of them ended up under Phillip\'92s bed. When he finished one he started another, and when he finished his entire stack he went back to the bottom and started again.\
\'93Like an army thing?\'94 said Vera. \'93Can you see me doing an army thing?\'94\
Vera did a twirl so that her skirt puffed out into a circle. She was always best-dressed in the orphanage and somehow managed to make her uniform look pin-sharp. She always forever hand-stitching flowers or butterflies or bows onto her clothes and always looked colourful. \
\'93Can\'92t see why not.\'94 said Phillip, shrugging.\
\'93We could escape.\'94 said Robin, flicking his toothbrush at Vera\'92s skirt and spraying it with toothpaste.\
\'93Disgusting!\'94 said Vera, who went to the sink, picked up a flannel and started dabbing at her skirt.\
\'93That\'92s my flannel!\'94 said Robin, \'93That\'92s disgusting!\'94 \
For a moment he looked like he might rush Vera, but instead he rolled back onto his bed and kicked his feet into the air.\
June, who was still standing by the door, said, \'93There would be no point in getting out would there? We\'92d just have to come back later - it\'92s not like there is anywhere to escape too is there?\'94\
Toby nodded. June was right, they didn\'92t have much choice on where they were for the next few years. At fourteen each child was put out of the orphanage, usually taking up an unpaid position with a local church-going family, where there were used as unpaid labour for housework. And then if they were lucky and worked hard, they might get a real job as a paid servant when they came of age at twenty-one.\
Twenty one. That seemed like an eternity away.\
\'93You know what?\'94 said Toby, standing up and talking to the whole room, \'93I think Phillip\'92s right. I think we should escape.\'94\
Everyone looked at him like he was mad.\
\'93Let\'92s have an adventure.\'94 he said, realising as he said it that what he most wanted to do was to put one over Finch.\
\'93Toby that would be very short-sighted.\'94 said Esme. \'93Being thrown out of the orphanage wouldn\'92t do anyone any good.\'94\
\'93No.\'94 Toby admitted. \'93That\'92s why, once we\'92ve escaped, we will come back, straight away.\'94\
\'93What\'92s the point of that?!\'94 said June.\
\'93Just to show we can.\'94 said Toby, \'93Just to show we have a choice.\'94\
Robin clapped his hands, \'93Yes! That would be one-up the Finch! I\'92m in for that!\'94\
June tutted and shook her head like an angry sparrow. She wasn\'92t having any of it.\
Esme looked doubtful, but Vera wasn\'92t, \'93It\'92s a brilliant idea.\'94 she said, \'93And I am really really bored. I want to do something new!\'94\
Toby was surprised that Vera was on his side, but glad of her support. Esme listened to Vera where often she completely ignored her brother.\
\'93What\'92s the plan then?\'94 said Phillip.\
\'93Plan?\'94 repeated Toby. He hadn\'92t got as far as a plan.\
\'93Plans are easy.\'94 said June. \'93Give me a moment\'85\'94\
Toby was about to say that they should think about it when June spoke again.\
\'93Duck fat.\'94\
\'93Duck fat?!\'94 echoed Robin. \'93You\'92re mental.\'94\
This is what Toby would have said, but he knew that Esme thought June got a rough time from the rest of them, so he stayed quiet.\
\'93Tell us what you mean.\'94 said Esme, gently.\
\'93The gate squeaks.\'94 said June, as if the answer were obvious.\
They all sat in silence, looking at each other.\
\'93I know!\'94 said Vera, delighted that she\'92d worked it out so quickly. \'93The fat is like oil. It will stop lock squeaking but it won\'92t run off the key.\'94\
June clapped her appreciation.\
\'93Who cares about the gate?!\'94 said Robin.\
\'93If you want to get out you have to go out the gate.\'94 said June. \'93That\'92s the only way.\'94\
Esme said, \'93We would have to go very early in the morning, say at five o'clock."\
Having caught their attention, she looked at the others, "Well, it's the least likely time to want to escape the orphanage isn't it?"\
What she had said set everyone thinking. It was as if they had popped the lid on a delicious tin of tinsel-wrapped sweets that belonged to someone else and what you had to do, even though you knew it was bad, was lift the lid right off and see them for yourself. And maybe take one. Just one.\
\'93But there\'92s nowhere to go at five in the morning is there?\'94 said Phillip.\
Vera answered him. "The point of getting out is not to do anything in particular, it\'92s to prove that we have some kind of choice in our lives. Even if that isn\'92t true, it would be nice to feel that for once, wouldn't it?"\
June spoke again, \'93You\'92d all have to be back by seven in the morning because\'85\'94\
\'93Because that\'92s when the breakfast bell sounds.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93You could just walk in off the street, ready for breakfast.\'94 said June, \'93There you are - easy-peasey. There\'92s your plan.\'94\
\'93What about it Toby?\'94 prodded Robin.\
\'93What do I think?\'94 said Toby, buying time.\
Toby was annoyed with June. It had been nice to think about escaping from the orphanage, but now that June had turned it into something that could be done he was less sure. He didn\'92t think it was easy-peasey. There was a real chance that they would be caught and punished. His looked down at his hand, at the red marks from the lashing he\'92d had yesterday.\
They still stung. He didn\'92t fancy a dozen or more of those. And there was always the chance that Finch would put him in solitary.\
The only person who had ever had solitary before was Spencer Digby, an older boy who towered over Finch. Digby was just about to turn fourteen and was about tho leave the orphanage. Digby had told Finch what he though of him, calling him a horrible old miser in front of the whole orphanage at dinner. Spencer had added a some colourful swear words as well.\
Finch locked Spencer into the cellar for his entire last week. \
They had all heard Digby late at night, begging to be set free, asking for forgiveness, promising to be good, but Finch left him in there to rot. When Spencer came out he was meek and walked with a stoop, all the rebellion washed out of him. Finch broke him, then he kicked Digby out the gate and into the real world with a sneering laugh.\
Remembering it made Toby tense. His hand felt like it was on fire.\
When he looked up there were five sets of eyes looking at him, wondering what he would say.\
\'93I think it would be really dangerous.\'94 he muttered.\
\'93Imagine being caught by Finch for doing something so bad.\'94 said Vera, her button nose glowing from horror at the thought.\
"It wouldn't be the strap that would hurt, it would be the lecture you got afterwards that would kill you." joked Robin, bringing a chortle of knowing laughter from all the children.\
"A lecture that would last longer than the eternity of Hell." chipped in Phillip.\
\'93Please don\'92t!" Esme barked at Phillip. She didn't like jokes about religion. \
"I wouldn't mind a lecture about Hell," chipped in Robin, "so long as he gave you some Heaven to look forward, but he doesn't see things that way, does he?"\
Even Esme couldn't argue that point. Finch never seemed to get round to talking about the good points of being a Christian and believing in God.\
Toby was scared, but he also knew if he did nothing he would burst from frustration. \
\'93It would be awful to be caught.\'94 said Toby, \'93But we need to have some fun every now and then. And if Finch wouldn\'92t let us have any we\'92ll have to take some for ourselves.\'94\
\'93Tonight?!\'94 said Robin excitedly.\
\'93Tonight.\'94 agreed Toby. \
\
\
\
}