{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Baskerville;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl660\sb1280\sa1280

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280
\cf0 \page \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440

\f1\fs44 \cf0 Part 1 - The Walthamstow Reds\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 The Papers\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Even though they went down to the market three more times in the next month, June never once came out with them. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 June always tried hard in the garden, sweating and grafting away, but at the end of the day the piles of weeds or potatoes she had taken from the garden\'a0were always half the size of anyone else's. The other Walthamstow Reds would often top her piles up when she wasn't looking, so she wouldn't feel so bad or get into trouble with Braithwaite, the grumpy gardener.\
She wasn\'92t strong, or practical, but she was good at other things. Like homework. She was a magic at that. She could finish your homework for you before you'd even finished reading the questions. She was also good at anything that required attention to detail - she seemed to see things that no one ever noticed.\
So it wasn\'92t a surprise that it was June who saw the smallest thing, something that would prove to be very important.\
One night, as they were munching on apples they had obtained from a market raid that morning, she noticed that Toby had wrapped his in a large piece of dirty newspaper.\
\'93What\'92s the date on that, Toby?\'94 she asked him.\
He decided to humour her as he knew she liked to be exact about dates and numbers, so he read it out, \'93September the third, Nineteen Forty Six.\'94\
\'93Three days ago.\'94 said June, \'93May I have it?\'94\
Toby shrugged and handed the ragged piece of paper over to her.\
She smoothed it out on top of her bed and started reading. No one thought much of it, June read everything she could find, no matter how boring. She even read text books, books that should have been years too difficult for her.\
Robin was halfway through telling them all, for the umpteenth time, how he was going to start a Rolls Royce shop after the war when June\'92s small voice interrupted him.\
\'93The war\'92s not going to end, at least not soon. And not well, not for us.\'94\
They all looked at her, confused. "What are you talking about?" said Esme.\
"Come and look." she said.\
They all clustered around June to see what she had found, each pulling at the paper to see what was on it.\
\'93Stop! You'll rip it!\'94 said Toby urgently. He pulled the paper up into the air and read the headline.\
\'93Germans mass along French coast. London to feel Speer\'92s wrath as new V6 rockets set to launch.\'94\
There was a moment\'92s stunned silence. This was the first they had heard of Germans on the French coast, or of rockets pointed at London.\
\'93Jeepers.\'94 said Robin, seriously.\
June had gone ahead in the article and now read aloud from it, reeling off a list of numbers. \'93A million troops, thousands of planes, hundreds of ships all gathering around the Dutch, French and Norwegian coastlines.\'94\
Toby felt a little sick, and looking at Esme he could see that she was confused and upset too. \
Mr Finch gave them regular updates at breakfast prayers and, according to him, everything was going fine. According to Finch the Germans had given up on England and had settled on occupying mainland Europe. According to Finch there was nothing at all to worry about.\
\'93You know what that means.\'94 said Vera, her voice low and tense.\
\'93No.\'94 said Phillip, who always needed things spelt out for him.\
\'93They\'92re going for London. That\'92s why they're in Holland and Norway. They want to come in over the South East and Essex coast, maybe right up the Thames itself.\'94\
\'93But I thought,\'94 said Toby, his brow creased with confusion, \'93we had all this under control.\'94\
Vera spoke again, her face ashen with worry, \'93One thing is certain, we can\'92t trust what Finch tells us.\'94\
They all went silent then, thinking about what a German invasion of London would be like. The truth was they had no idea what it would be like, but everyone was certain it wouldn\'92t be any good.\
They had all been five or six years old when the war started so they had lived with it constantly, but only as a distant threat. To them the war was an excuse for Finch to give them less food or to work them harder. The fighting itself was a long way away and happened to other people.\
Robin broke the silence. \'93I wonder how big a V6 rocket is. Must pack a big wallop. Remember the V2?\'94\
No one needed to answer Robin\'92s question. They all remembered the London Blitz of the early 1940\'92s. Several houses just up the road had been destroyed and dozens of people injured, though it was much worse down on The Thames where the docks were. They had got used to seeing searing orange flames on the horizon from fires in the factories that ran down the Lee Valley to the docks.\
That was six years ago - how bad would a V6 be? Were they three times worse than a V2?\
Toby decided he needed to speak. He liked to think of himself as a leader and he knew that leaders spoke first and encouraged people. \'93We should let everyone in the Orphanage know what\'92s happening.\'94\
Esme shook her head. \'93Not yet.\'94\
\'93Why not?!\'94 Toby frowned at his sister for contradicting him.\
\'93We don\'92t know enough, let\'92s go out tomorrow morning and get a whole bunch of newspapers. We must be able to get some from somewhere.\'94\
Vera, Robin and June nodded at Esme's idea.\
\'93I know where.\'94 said Robin. \'93I\'92ll go out by myself and get some.\'94\
\'93I\'92ll come with you.\'94 said Toby, \'93We\'92ll leave them out for everyone to read.\'94 He added, \'93Finch better not find out it was us or he\'92ll make our lives hell.\'94\
They all agreed with Toby on that. No one wanted to be on the wrong side of Finch.\
So the next day all the children in the orphanage found a copy of 'The Times' on their table as they came in for breakfast. Robin and Toby had gone out alone at six o\'92clock and swiped eight, one for each dorm, off the top of a bundle that was left outside the local newsagent on Hoe Street.\
*\'a0The scene in the dining room at breakfast was chaos. Children had pages of the paper in front of them, passing them rapidly around the table so that everyone - at least the children who could read - could see what was really happening in the outside world.\
It was grim reading. The English Prime Minister, Lord Basham, had admitted to Parliament that they were powerless to stop the build-up as most of our own troops were still tied up in the war in the Baltic (wherever that was) and it would take weeks to get them back. \
There were stories about the failure of British Intelligence - why was it that none of Britain\'92s spies had known anything about the build up of troop before they happened? How had everyone been blind-sided by the German Chancellor, Albert Speer?\
June was particularly interested in a long and dense article about the German code breaking effort. She sat like a sparrow, pecking and tutting at the article\'a0as if it were food. When Toby asked why she was so agitated, she did her best to explain what was going on. Apparently the English had cracked the German\'92s Enigma code early in the war using their new inventions - computers - and that had given them an intelligence advantage for many years. But two years ago the Germans had realised what had happened and started designing and using their own computers to make uncrackable new codes. So now the English couldn\'92t read the minds of the Germans like they used to. Ever since the failure of the D-Day landings in France in 1943 the English had been on the back foot. That was the simple version, though June said it was much more complicated and that the maths was really interesting. \
Toby had to take her word on that.\
*\'a0When Mr and Mrs Finch came in for breakfast and saw what was happening they panicked and rushed about the room, desperately trying to pull the papers out of the children\'92s hands. Other children were pulling the papers back out from behind them and the Finches were getting crosser and crosser, shouting all sorts of threats and punishments at them. But there were too many children and eventually the Finches had to get out, leaving the papers behind and locking the children into the dining room without any breakfast.\
The children barely noticed their hunger as they sat\'a0there\'a0reading the papers and talking about the news. Some of the little kids didn't understand what was happening and started to cry. Esme and Vera went off to try and explain things to them, explain and give them a hug.\
Finally, at nine, Finch unlocked the door and stood in front of them, looking for once humble in his long frock coat and too-tight dog collar. He was wringing his hands and when he spoke he sounded older and weaker than usual, his pinched face flushed with anxiety. Beside him his wife stood with crossed arms, formidable and silent, as stern as her husband was nervous. Toby thought Mr Finch looked about as frightened of her as he did of the children.\
\'93It was the parish\'92s fault,\'94 he started. \'93I wanted to tell you everything but they wouldn\'92t let me.\'94 His voice was lost under the sound of fifty children booing and jeering and it took him a couple of tries to get them all to be quiet. \'93Yes there are Germans on the other side of the channel but really, there is nothing to be worried about.\'94\
This statement bought more boos. How could there be nothing to worry about if they were about to be invaded?\
As the hubbub died down, Toby, thinking it was about time he showed his leadership qualities again, shouted out over the dining room, \'93How about you give us the papers every day then, if there\'92s nothing to worry about?\'94\
The very impertinence of this question silenced the room. Everyone looked at Mr Finch, who was beet-red now, and then back to Toby who was trying his best to look strong and not show how he was really feeling, which was absolutely terrified. The face-off seemed to last for ever, with both of them looking at each other. Who would break first?\
\'93Newspapers?! For children?!\'94 spat Mr Finch. \'93Very well, you shall have newspapers. But,\'94 he raised his pointer finger high into the air above them, \'93don\'92t blame me if you don\'92t like the news!\'94\
This brought a series of cheers and Toby felt encouraging slaps on his back. As Mr Finch left the room he looked over at Toby. He felt an icy stab of anxiety as Finch gave him a smile, the kind of smile that said he would be taking special interest in Toby from now on.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Shortbread\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Just four hours later, when they were out at the allotment weeding, Toby heard Robin mutter \'93Incoming, three o\'92clock.\'94 under his breath.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Toby looked up to see Mrs Finch storming across the gardens towards them looking like murder. Her shirt was catching the wind and billowing into her face and she had keep angrily swatting it away from her as she walked. You could practically see the steam coming out of her ears.\
Toby would have burst out laughing, but he realised that she was heading straight for him. He kept his head down, digging in the dirt, pretending to concentrate on his task.\
\'93You!\'94 She barked, forcing Toby to look up into her broad sweaty face. \'93Headmaster\'92s office! Now!\'94\
Toby barely had time to nod before she turned and started to flap and tut her way back to the Orphanage.\
*\'a0By the time he had cleaned himself up and walked slowly back to the Orphanage it was twelve o\'92clock. Toby was moving as slowly as he thought he could get away with because he was scared. He had a terrible feeling of dread in the pit of his stomach. He was going to get the strap, that was certain. And, worse that that, he wondered if Finch would use his darkest punishment - solitary confinement.\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AC6ECE9E-C4D8-471F-A3F3-ADD9CFF34221"}}{\fldrslt The only person who had ever got solitary before was Spencer Digby, an older boy who towered over Finch. Digby was just about to turn fourteen, the age the children were let out into the adult world. He had called Mr Finch a horrible old miser in front of the whole Orphanage. Spencer had added a some colourful swear words as well, the kind of words the market traders might use.\
Finch put Spencer into solitary for his entire last week. \
They had all heard Digby late at night, begging to be set free, asking for forgiveness, promising to be good, but Finch left him in there to rot. When Spencer came out he was meek and seemed to walk with a stoop. Finch had broken him. Then he kicked Digby out the gate and into the real world with a sneering laugh.\
Remembering it made Toby even more apprehensive. }}By the time he knocked on Finch\'92s door his heart was racing and his hands were clammy. If this was leadership he decided he didn\'92t want any of more of it.\
\'93Come in.\'94 said Finch, sounding surprisingly pleasant and cheery.\
Confused, Toby pushed open the door and saw Finch, not hovering behind his dark mahogany desk wielding his strap as usual, but sitting in a comfortable chair by the window, a closed Bible on his lap. Finch gestured to the empty chair across the occasional table, \'93Have a seat Toby, please.\'94\
Toby didn\'92t know what was happening. Was Mr Finch actually being nice to him?\
He sat down warily. Mr Finch poured tea into a delicate cup and pushed it over the table towards Toby and then picked up a plate.\
\'93Biscuit?\'94\
Toby\'92s eyes just about popped out. Biscuit? He couldn\'92t remember when he last had a biscuit, and he\'92d never had any as fine as the selection on offer now. There were shortbreads and pink lady fingers and wafers. Which one? He quickly picked a shortbread. The twinkling sprinkle of sugar was too much to resist.\
Biting into it was heavenly and the tea to wash it down was fragrant and sweet, much nicer than their own.\
\'93I am glad you could join me Toby, I wanted to talk with you.\'94 Finch smiled a broad smile that showed off his crooked and decaying teeth, making him look as friendly as a crocodile hungering after a meal.\
\'93You did?\'94 said Toby, unable to keep surprise out of his voice.\
\'93It was very clever, what you did today.\'94\
\'93Was it?\'94 Toby was really confused now, why was Finch complementing him?\
\'93Oh yes.\'94 Finch bit into a wafer and the chocolate filling slid down his lower lip. He quickly tilted his head forward and caught it back into his mouth with a horrible sucking sound. \'93You put me in a corner.\'94\
\'93Did I?\'94 said Toby.\
Finch smiled his not-smile, \'93You know you did.\'94 Finch tapped a shortbread on his saucer before dramatically plunging it into his tea. \'93Very clever indeed.\'94\
Finch waited a moment, pulled the biscuit out and, in the way a sparrow might feed it\'92s young, let the whole thing drop with a fleshy plop into his upturned mouth.\
Toby felt a wave of nausea come over him and he had to pretend to cough to cover his disgust.\
Finch looked directly at Toby, \'93You put everyone against me.\'94\
Toby felt sweat suddenly prickle on his forehead. \'93Well, I think it would be fair to say that everyone agreed with me at the time.\'94 \
\'93Is that right?\'94 Finch took another shortbread and repeated the whole hideous dunking routine. Toby had to look at a photo on the wall, a wedding portrait of Mr and Mrs Finch, to stop himself from gagging. They didn\'92t look much younger than they were now. They couldn't have been married a long time.\
Mr Finch continued, \'93It is good to be a part of the majority, wouldn\'92t you say?\'94\
Toby felt like he was being asked a trick question, but he couldn\'92t see what Mr Finch was driving at.\
\'93If they agree with you, certainly.\'94\
Finch nodded, leaned back in his chair and looked out the window. \'93Sometimes you must keep your own counsel and do what you think is right even though it goes against the majority. Because you know that one day your kind will come and save you, will come and prove you right. Then the sacrifice will have been worth it.\'94\
Mr Finch was making no sense at all. Toby wondered how long this was going to last. He would have preferred to get the strap, at least that was clear cut, all this talking was making his head spin.\
\'93If you say so, Mr Finch.\'94 he said.\
Finch snapped back to him, making Toby jump and his cup rattle in its saucer, \'93Boy! I\'92m offering you something here, the chance to be a leader, the chance to be part of the New World. Will you embrace that?\'94\
Toby really had no idea what he was meant to embrace, no idea what the \'91New World\'92 was, all he knew was that Finch was raving mad and the sooner he got out of his office the better. \
Finch leaned over the table towards Toby. \'93Don\'92t you want to be a leader?\'94 Finch asked, his red face just inches away from Toby, his breath both sickly and sweet at once.\
Toby spoke quickly, before he had a chance to think. \'93Yes sir. Yes I do, but...\'94\
\'93Excellent!\'94 said Finch, pulling the cup and saucer from Toby\'92s hand and practically pushing him out the door, \'93Await my word!\'94\
\'93But I don\'92t understand what you want!\'94\
\'93You will boy, you will.\'94 Finch put his fingers to his lips to silence Toby\'92s next question.\
With that Finch slammed the study door closed and Toby found himself back in the corridor, grateful that he hadn\'92t been caned but confused, deeply confused, about what he had just agreed to.\
*\'a0Later, as Toby lay in bed, unable to sleep, he thought about the position they were all in. As orphans they had no rights and with no parents they had no one to stand up for them. The Church, represented by Finch, was meant to be looking after them, but the power he had over them was total. \
It was unfair. Why should this one man have so much say in the lives of fifty children? Why should Toby have no real choice when Finch asked him to do something? Finch was using his position to lord it over him, to manipulate him in ways that weren\'92t yet clear, and Toby didn\'92t like it.\
He turned in bed and saw Esme looking at him, her face only a couple of feet from his, a pale disc in the moonlight that leaked in around the threadbare curtains in their room.\
Yes, Esme was a pain sometimes, but there were moments\'a0that\'a0he felt very close to her, almost like he could see and hear what she was seeing and hearing. He remembered the time he had hurt his leg last year, slashing it deeply with a scythe as he was cutting hay out in Chingford Mount. Esme had been two miles away at the allotment but somehow she knew he had been hurt, and ran to Whipps Cross hospital, getting there just as he did. Braithwaite, the gardener, was amazed to see her there because he hadn\'92t sent a message to the Orphanage. Esme said she just had a sudden feeling of knowledge in her stomach and a strong urge to go to the hospital. Sometimes the thought of that spooked him out. And sometimes he thought they simply knew each other very well and she had made a lucky guess that day.\
Whatever the truth was, it felt good now when she put her hand in his and squeezed it before closing her eyes again and falling asleep. Everything would be all right, everything would be all right if they could just stay together.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Double cross\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 The next day Finch chose Toby to ring the bells. First for breakfast, then to signal the beginning of work, then lunch, then back to work again, the dinner bell at six o\'92clock and, finally, the bell that sent everyone to bed at nine. Ringing the bell was meant to be a privilege but to Toby it felt like punishment. Finch smiled at him. A lot. Which made Toby feel nervy-sick.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 He hadn\'92t told Esme about yesterday\'92s meeting with Finch, and all through the day she looked at him oddly. It wasn\'92t like Toby to keep something from her and he felt ashamed. \
But he had to admit to himself that he did want to be a leader, to be something other than a labourer when he got out of the orphanage. He wanted to be able to look after his sister. Toby knew that she was perfectly capable of looking after herself, but he still felt the obligation of the older brother. \
Actually they had no idea which of them had been born first, but Toby believed he was the older one. It was just a feeling he had. A feeling he needed.\
*\'a0That night, when the six of them were sitting on their beds in the attic, Toby noticed that no one was including him in their chit-chat, or even looking at him. \
Robin and June were reading, Robin was pretending to read one of his Beano comics and June a maths book. Philip was throwing a tired old tennis ball into the air and catching it and Vera was, as always, doing some hand sewing. Esme was looking at the window. Everyone was silent.\
Silence drove Toby crazy, he hated it. He would rather be talking, arguing even, anything other than the incriminating quiet. Still, he didn\'92t want to be the first to give in, to break the silence, so it went on for ten minutes, until he couldn\'92t take it anymore.\
\'93Is something wrong?\'94 Toby asked Esme.\
\'93With me? No.\'94 Said Esme still looking out the window.\
Robin gave a small snigger.\
\'93What\'92s up with you?\'94 snapped Toby.\
\'93Just clearing my throat.\'94 said Robin.\
Toby frowned. He looked at each of the others in turn but still none of them would look him in the eye. No one but June, who was always incapable of telling a lie.\
He decided to ask her directly. \'93Why won't anyone talk to me, June?\'94\
\'93Well...\'94 she started, not looking up from her book, \'93I think everyone is wondering why you were ringing the bell today.\'94\
\'93So what if I was ringing the bell?\'94 said Toby, sounding petulant.\
\'93No one gets to ring every bell in the day, Toby.\'94 said June.\
\'93Yes, and?\'94 said Toby again, even more defensively.\
June continued, \'93And that meeting you had with him yesterday. There were several theories. The main thrust seemed to be that you had sold out to Finch.\'94\
Toby felt the blood rush to his face. \'93Sold out? What do you mean by that?\'94\
Esme spoke softly. \'93Maybe you\'92d agreed to stop being a pain in return for something.\'94\
\'93Maybe the next time we sneak out of the orphanage we\'92ll find Finch waiting for us, with a big net!\'94 said Robin.\
Toby didn\'92t want to tell them the truth, he didn\'92t want to say that he had agreed to something but that even he didn\'92t know what it was. He had to think of something that didn\'92t make him look like a total idiot.\
\'93Well\'85\'94 he started, not quite sure of what he was about to say, \'93I did get Finch to, to\'85\'94\
\'93Yes?\'94 said Vera, looking at him expectantly.\
\'93I got him to trust me,\'94 he said, \'93so that I could find out what he is up to.\'94\
Toby had surprised even himself with that, but once he said it, it made perfect sense. \'93I am a double agent!\'94 he announced grandly.\
Esme clapped with happiness. \'93Oh thank goodness for that!\'94 Then she turned to Vera, \'93See? I told you he hadn\'92t gone bad.\'94\
Vera shrugged, looked at Toby and giggled as if to say that she hadn't really been thinking badly about him either. \'93I just thought it was odd.\'94 she said.\
\'93My behaviour was odd,\'94 said Toby grandly, \'93you were right to question it.\'94\
He turned to the rest of them. \'93We must stick together if we want to be able to survive the coming crisis, and that means we must trust each other. That includes questioning each other if need be.\'94 Toby liked the sound of that, he felt like a leader.\
\'93So why,\'94 said Robin snidely, \'94didn\'92t you tell us what you were doing?"\
Trying not to sound as caught out as he felt, Toby turned to Robin, who was looking at him closely. Toby decided to raise his voice at Robin, because he knew Robin didn\'92t like being shouted at, \'93Because I didn\'92t know if it would work, that\'92s why!\'94\
Robin looked away, though he didn\'92t look like he really believed Toby.\
\'93I think it\'92s brilliant.\'94 said Philip. \'93Well done.\'94\
\'93Thanks,\'94 said Toby, grateful that Philip was on his side.\
\'93So then,\'94 said Vera, \'93what\'92s the plan?\'94\
\'93The plan?\'94 stuttered Toby.\
\'93Now that you have his confidence, what\'92s the plan?\'94 repeated Vera.\
Toby had no idea what the plan was. \
He knew he had to say something, so he started to speak, hoping something sensible would come out. \'93That\'92s why I need your help.\'94 said Toby. \'94I have an idea, but\'85 I was interested to know what all of you thought I should do.\'94 Toby thought that was a stroke of genius - turn the question back on them.\
\'93What was your idea then?\'94 asked June, missing Toby\'92s point.\
Toby sighed. It was hard to be angry at June because she really didn\'92t have a clue about when she was being annoying so it was pointless getting cross as she would just cry.\
He had to make something else up. \'93I wanted to gain his trust so that I could get our point across. Finch doesn\'92t like being made to seem like an idiot, right?\'94\
The other children nodded in agreement.\
\'93So if he trusts me then I can suggest changes from the inside and he can make them look like they were his idea!\'94\
Toby thought that was brilliant, and it was even possible. Maybe he really could use his influence with Finch to make all the children\'92s lives better. \'93For a start, I could get him to stop using the strap and cane so much.\'94\
Philip nodded. \'93That would be good.\'94 Philip was the one who seemed to get the cane most.\
Esme turned to look at Toby. \'93You could find out things about him.\'94\
\'93Could I?\'94 asked Toby, unsure of what she was getting at.\
\'93Yes,\'94 she continued. \'93You could find out what he\'92s really up to.\'94\
Everyone looked at Esme, suddenly curious about what she meant. The room felt hot and still,\'a0as if something important was about to happen.\
"There's something about him, and his wife, that just doesn't add up."\
\'93You\'92re right about that Esme.\'94 said Robin, \'93For a man of God he doesn\'92t have much good in him. At least not next to old Cape.\'94\
They all went quiet for a moment, remembering Mr Cape, the Headmaster before Finch, a genial and enthusiastic man. It was Cape who had broken all the rules and set up the Attic Dorm so that Esme and Toby could be in the same room together when they came out of the parish nursery. Cape said it would be \'91inhuman\'92 to break them apart. Cape had then selected some of the more \'91special\'92 orphans and put them all together. Then one day about two years ago, without any announcement, Finch had stood before them at breakfast and told them that Cape had given up on them and that the parish had decided they needed a firmer hand.\
\'93Good old Cape.\'94 said Esme, her voice soft with fondness.\
\'93I was looking at the photo of the Finchs\'92 on their wedding day,\'94 said Toby, \'93and it seems to me they haven\'92t been married very long. Mrs Finch was wearing a shirt she wears now, and it still looks new. I think they were married just before they took over the orphanage.\'94\
\'93And why would anyone want to marry Finch?\'94 said Vera, a shudder of disgust running through her.\
\'93The same reason anyone marries anyone.\'94 said Robin, \'93They\'92ve got a lot in common.\'94\
\'93They seem so different.\'94 said Esme, \'93He\'92s thin as a rake, she\'92s built like a church. He\'92s mean and clever and weasley, she\'92s stupid as an ox.\'94\
\'93It must be something else, a shared belief.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93It\'92s not religion, obviously.\'94 sniped Robin. \
Esme sat up on her bed. \'93A shared belief. Exactly Toby. It can\'92t just be that they\'92re both horrible people, no one goes around thinking \'91I\'92m a disgusting human being, I have to find someone as disgusting as myself to marry\'92. I think they got married because they do have something in common, and it\'92s something they both must really love.\'94 \
Before Esme could continue, a sound they hadn\'92t heard for many years cut through their conversation. It was the urgent call of the air raid siren, the sound that said danger was on the way. Death was going to fall from the sky.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Now and then\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 For a moment no one knew what to do. They all looked at each other in surprise - how could there be an air raid so soon?\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Vera was the first one to snap back to reality. \'93Downstairs, now!\'94 she yelled, jumping up from her bed.\
They quickly grabbed their warm clothes and jackets and spilled out the door. Within two minutes they had corkscrewed down the main staircase and joined the cram of children in the basement.\
The drill was that each dorm called out their name when they were all in the basement and Mrs Finch ticked it off on a blackboard with chalk. Esme shouted "Attic!" as they all tumbled in. When the names of the other eight rooms were called out a couple of the older boys pulled at the massive wooden doors until they slammed shut, then barred them from the inside with heavy slats of iron.\
It wasn\'92t nice down there. There was no fire and only a couple of kerosene lamps for light. The wooden benches were narrow and the children were rammed shoulder to shoulder, shivering and instantly uncomfortable. Their breaths clouded in the cold, earthy air as they listened as hard as they could for rockets.\
Finch, his wife, Braithwaite and Collins all sat around a table at one end of the basement. They had their own lamp and thick fur blankets draped over their shoulders and knees. Finch read a book, one of his thrillers, and chewed on a chicken leg while his wife embroidered a sampler. They could have been on a picnic. Braithwaite and Collins, both of whom seemed old as rock, chatted to themselves and laughed quietly, the pungent fumes from their pipes stinging the children's nostrils. \
Toby knew there was something weird about Finch, something about what he was saying yesterday afternoon, but he had no idea what it was. What had Esme noticed about him? He whispered to Esme, \'93What did you mean about Finch?\'94\
\'93He\'92s hiding something,\'94 said Esme.\
\'93Is he?\'94\
\'93Yes.\'94 She looked at Toby, her face shadowy in the low flickering candle light. \'93But I can\'92t tell you why I think that. It\'92s just\'85\'94\
\'93Yes?\'94 Toby encouraged her to keep going.\
\'93It\'92s the way he looks at things.\'94\
\'93Really?\'94 That didn\'92t seem like much to go on.\
Esme screwed up her face. \'93I can\'92t explain it, it\'92s like he\'92s greedy. Greedy and impatient, like he\'92s waiting for something.\'94\
Toby looked at Finch. He was lost in his book, gnawing on the chicken, his narrow nose quivering above the white flesh. It wasn\'92t an attractive sight, and Finch was obviously mad, but Toby couldn\'92t see anything sinister in it.\
Toby started to talk but the hubbub of chatter in the basement was cut through with a horrible sound. Everyone instantly stopped talking and listened. \
It was a grating high-pitched whine, a sound that felt like it was inside you rather than high above and as it got closer and closer it seemed to get further into your head.\
Toby clasped his hands to his ears but it made no difference. This was much worse than sound of the V2 rockets that had come over earlier in the war. These were louder, more intense, and it kept building until it seemed to drown his senses - surely it was going to land on top of them.\
Toby looked around and saw the looks of terror and disbelief on the children's faces. Then he looked at the adult table.\
The gardener and cook also looked scared, but Finch and his wife were different. They were transfixed by the sound, just like everyone else, but instead of looking scared they looked thrilled. They looked like they were enjoying themselves.\
After what seemed like minutes but could only have been seconds a great, noiseless shudder passed beneath them, the shock wave of the rocket hitting the earth. It was followed quickly by the terrible, deafening explosion as it\'92s payload of high explosive went off. The impact seemed to be right beside them but Toby realised the fact that he was hearing it meant they weren\'92t dead and that the rocket must have landed close by, but not close enough to cause them any damage.\
After ten seconds of violent shaking the earth stopped shifting beneath their feet and the sound slowly ebbed away into an eerie silence.\
Toby looked again at Finch and his wife. The were sharing a look, a look of happiness. Finch reached out and took his wife\'92s hand and patted it with his other. Toby had never seen Finch be kind or affectionate to her. Esme was right. There was something weird about Finch and his wife. And now he was honour-bound to find out what it was.\
The rockets kept coming for another hour and, although they all strained and sweated through each one, none of the sixteen more rockets that fell on London that night made it anywhere near Walthamstow.\
*\'a0When the all-clear sounded they made their way back up to the dorm. It was impossible to sleep. Instead they talked long into the night, wondering about the war, about the new rockets, about how it was impossible that the Germans would invade and how they would be saved. Somehow.\
\'93I'm not so sure.\'94 said Toby. \'93The Air Force must have been trying everything it could to stop the rockets, but they still got through. More will come, perhaps many more, until London is on its knees.\'94\
Toby's gloomy statement was followed by a deep silence that was only broken by the sad, soft sound of Vera sobbing.\
\'93Of course,\'94 said Toby, trying to lighten the mood. \'93What do I know?\'94\
\'93Nothing.\'94 said Philip.\
\'93Nothing at all.\'94 said Esme, her voice lacking conviction.\
The silence lengthened, as if they were all asleep. But none of the them slept for hours, not until their need for sleep had won a battle with their racing minds, quelling the fire of nerves and worry with its welcome and soothing darkness.\
*\'a0The morning papers were full of the raids. It was too early to be making casualty lists but many hundreds were feared dead. There was a quickly drawn map too, the location of each bomb was marked. Most of them fell down near the docks.\
Robin read aloud as the others ate their porridge and apple. \'93The Walthamstow Rocket fell at Low Hall Farm and destroying all the farm buildings and severely damaging many of the streets around. Broken glass was reported as far away as Hackney to the West and South Woodford in the East. It is thought the rocket might have been aimed at the aircraft factories in the Lee Valley.\'94\
\'93The rocket landed a mile away from us.\'94 said June.\
\'93It must have been huge!\'94 said Vera, her eyes wide in awe. \'93It felt like it was in the next street.\'94\
\'93Thank God that it wasn't,\'94 replied Robin, \'93or we might look like this.\'94 He let the mushy porridge slide off his spoon and plop into the bowl.\'94\
Vera put her hand to her mouth as if she might throw up.\
\'93At least it would be quick.\'94 said Robin. This didn't comfort Vera, who stood up suddenly and walked quickly to the toilets.\
\'93She's going to fall apart.\'94 said Robin unsympathetically, then helping himself to Vera's porridge.\
\'93She feels things more than we do. We have to help her.\'94 said June, pulling the porridge back off Robin. The two of them tugged at it until Robin relented with a scowl. June pushed the bowl back into the centre of the table.\
\'93It doesn't make sense to waste food, 'specially not now.\'94 said Robin, still truculent.\
Esme looked at Toby. He knew what she was thinking. The way Robin had said\'a0_not now
\i . There used to be a better time, called\'a0_then
\i0 , but they were living in a harder time, a time called\'a0_now
\i . One rocket had signalled the coming of a whole new era. 
\i0 Now_ meant danger, real danger.\
Toby nodded to his sister, showing that he understood what she was thinking.\
As they sat quietly eating, letting Robin's comment settle, Toby looked at them all, one by one.\
June looked almost normal, her round face still shone like a bowl of milk, but every now and then Toby saw her steady blue eyes give an involuntary twitch. It was her nervous sign. Unconsciously, she tried to wipe it away with the back of her hand.\
Phillip just looked blank, like someone had hit him and he was waiting to see how angry he felt. Robin, his narrow face looking even more pinched than normal, chewed on nothing, his eyes distant and metallic. Esme just kept looking at Toby, her eyes sad but also expectant. What did she want from him? What was Toby meant to do about all this?\
Vera made her way back to the table. She was still looking shaky as she sat down but had regained some composure.\
Robin was onto her immediately. \'93Do you want this?\'94\
Vera shook her head.\
\'93Anyone else?\'94\
This time no one challenged him, so Robin snatched the bowl and dug his spoon into it like he was digging for gold. He finished it in a matter of seconds before pushing it back into the middle of the table and giving a loud, wet burp.\
Esme sighed.\
\'93Pardon me.\'94 said Robin, not really meaning it.\
Toby cleared his throat and looked around all of them, making sure\'a0that\'a0he had their attention.\
\'93Things have changed. We don\'92t know how difficult it's going to get but it looks bad, very bad. The only chance we have to get through it is to stick together. It\'92s not like we can look to our parents for help, is it?\'94\
No one said anything. Robin shook his head and muttered. Sometimes Robin said that his parents had been tricked into giving him away and that one day they would come and save him. He wasn\'92t claiming that now.\
\'93So that\'92s settled then.\'94 said Toby, taking the silence for agreement. \'93We stick together." He continued, "We may not be able to do much about the rockets but there is something else we can do. Something closer to home. Something to do with Finch.\'94\
Now he really had their attention. Everyone was listening to him. He lowered his voice to a whisper. \'93Here\'92s the plan.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 The bible\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Finch kept Toby on bell duty for days on end. Only the Walthamstow Reds knew Toby's plan, so all the other orphans thought that he was just being a suck and they stopped talking to him. Toby didn\'92t blame them, he probably would have thought the same thing himself, but it was horrible to be thought a traitor. He kept smiling and ringing the bell and pretending everything was fine, waiting for the moment to spring his plan.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 He suffered for three days until, in the middle of the afternoon, the air raid siren went off again. \
Toby was working in the kitchen, peeling a hundred small potatoes and dropping them in a large pot of cold water for the evening meal. He knew Mr and Mrs Finch were in the drawing room having afternoon tea because he had taken it to them ten minutes earlier. He was in the perfect position at just the right time. Which was annoying as a bit of him wished he didn\'92t have to carry out his plan. It was very risky.\
Toby slowly dried his hands, taking his time so that everyone left the kitchen before him, then popped his head into the main corridor. After a short while the drawing room door opened and Finch and his wife bustled along it and down the stairs into the shelter. Children from all around the orphanage followed them, silent and urgent, and shortly Toby heard the shouts as they called out the room names. One of the Reds called out 'Attic' and soon after that he heard the sound of the cellar doors being barred from the inside. \
There was no way into the shelter now, he was on his own out here.\
Suddenly he felt someone grab his shoulder. He jumped with fright and it took all his strength to not shout out. Turning to see who it was, he was surprised to see Robin\'92s grinning face.\
\'93Couldn\'92t let you do this alone Toby.\'94 Robin said.\
Toby sighed. \'93You\'92re an idiot. They\'92re sure to notice two of us missing.\'94\
Robin laughed. \'93No they won\'92t and even if they do, they'll be hoping that we both get one in the neck, won't they?\'94\
Toby looked at Robin, thinking that he was totally mad. But he was also glad to have someone with him. \'93Come on then.\'94 he said, indicating the stairs.\
Together they crept upstairs to the first floor and around to the back of the house, to the door to Finch\'92s study. Toby tried the handle, but it was locked.\
\'93Weren\'92t expecting that, were you?\'94 whispered Robin.\
\'93No, not at all.\'94 said Toby, shaking his head. \'93It never used to be locked.\'94\
The door had always been open in the past. No one would dare to go there without Finch\'92s say so anyway.\
\'93Maybe he\'92s got something to hide now.\'94 said Robin.\
Toby nodded. \'93Not going to find out now, are we?\'94\
Robin smiled at him and, dipping his hand into his pocket, brought out a small hooked piece of wire. \'93Oh yes we are.\'94\
Toby watched astonished as Robin worked the wire into the lock. After a couple of twists and turns Robin gently pushed on the handle and the door clicked opened.\
\'93Brilliant!\'94 said Toby, sounding more enthusiastic than he felt.\
\'93After you, Sir.\'94 said Robin, pushing the door open for Toby.\
At that moment they heard the first rocket come in. Even though they were expecting the noise they were struck dumb. It was even louder outside the cellar. Louder and higher pitched, as if someone were playing your spine like a violin. Toby gritted his teeth and walked into Finch\'92s study, doing his best to ignore the approaching scream.\
He\'92d been in here often enough, so he knew the layout of the room. A big old desk and chair in front of a bank of cabinets and then, near the window, the two easy chairs and the table where he had sat watching Finch dunk his biscuits just a few days ago.\
\'93What are we looking for Toby?\'94\
Toby didn\'92t really know what they were looking for. \'93Strange papers, odd keepsakes, anything unusual. There must be something in here that will give him away.\'94\
Robin nodded and turned to the desk, the most obvious place to start looking. Toby went to the bookcase and started along the shelves.\
They kept looking for more than an hour. Every now and then Toby would quietly ask Robin if he had seen anything, but Robin always shook his head. Then they would hear a rocket coming closer and they would pause, wondering if they would have to take shelter under the desk. Not that a wooden desk would help much if it was a direct hit. Not even being in the cellar would help in a direct hit.\
Toby kept going along the bookcases, carefully picking up each book, flicking through the pages and then putting it back in the shelf. Most of the books were old and untouched for years so they had a thick layer of dust on the top. They must have been books that came with the job. There were also novels and poetry, old stuff, the kind of thing that Toby thought no one would ever read. Strangely there was dust on all the books that Finch probably should be reading too, all the books on Christianity and education, the kind of books that Mr Cage would have read. Not even the hymn books or prayer books had been taken off the shelf in a long time.\
Maybe Robin was right and Mr Finch was not much of a man of God after all.\
Toby thought back to his meeting with Finch, there was something on the edge of his memory. The Bible. That was it! Finch had had a Bible on his knee when he was talking to Toby.\
Toby went over to the easy chairs and the occasional table under the window. There was the Bible, large and old, laid out on top of the table. He picked it up and started to flip through the thin, delicate pages. It wasn\'92t until he turned the last page he saw anything unusual. Concealed right at the end were several newspaper cuttings. Toby squinted to read them and took a moment to realise that the language they were printed in was not English.\
It was German.\
\'93Robin, come and look at this.\'94\
Robin stopped what he was doing and came over, practically grabbing the Bible out of Toby\'92s hands.\
\'93Ah!\'94 he cried out, seeing the articles. \'93He can read German.\'94 Then, less sure of himself, Robin continued. \'93Does that prove anything?\'94\
\'93No,\'94 Toby agreed, \'93it doesn\'92t mean anything by itself. But he hasn\'92t read anything else in the room. They're all covered in dust.\'94\
\'93So he\'92s not much of a reader.\'94 Robin shrugged.\
\'93If Finch reads German then he could be a sympathiser.\'94\
Robin looked confused. \'93Why would an English Curate sympathise with the Germans?\'94\
Toby remembered back to Finch\'92s mad ranting of the other day. All that guff about belonging and being proved right in the end.\
\'93An Englishman, even a Curate, would sympathise with the Germans if they were a Nazi.\'94\
Robin blinked rapidly trying to take in what Toby was saying. \'93Finch a Nazi? But that\'92s impossible. What would he be doing running our orphanage?\'94\
\'93That\'92s a very good question.\'94 said Toby, shrugging.\
They both tried to think of a reason why a Nazi would bother with them, but they were flummoxed. Suddenly it seemed like a stupid idea - how could Finch, a Curate in the Church of England, also be a Nazi Party member?\
While they were standing there the all clear siren sounded.\
\'93Let\'92s get out of here.\'94 said Toby, placing the Bible carefully back on the table.\
Robin nodded and they both scurried through the door.\
As Toby pulled it closed he realised something. \'93You can\'92t re-lock that door, can you?\'94 he asked Robin.\
Robin looked at the door, realising what Toby was driving at and shook his head.\
\'93He\'92ll know someone has been here.\'94 said Robin.\
\'93He will.\'94 said Toby, \'93But he won\'92t know who.\'94\
Robin ducked back into the room and came back out with a silver fountain pen.\
\'93What\'92s that for?\'94\
\'93He\'92ll think someone was nicking something to sell down the market. It\'92s called distraction. If he\'92s worrying about the pen he won\'92t look for another reason why someone would be in his study.\'94 said Robin as he made off down the hall, back towards the stream of children who would be coming out of the shelter.\
Toby wondered if he\'92d ever see that pen again. At the moment he didn\'92t care much. They had found out something about Finch that pointed in one direction, but it wasn\'92t enough to prove anything.\
He would have to think of another way to dig deeper.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 A loyalty test\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Toby was back in Finch\'92s study much sooner than he expected. It had only been an hour since the all-clear had been given. This time there was no tea on offer.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Finch stood looking out the window, his hands twisting and grasping each other behind his back as he spoke. \'93Do you know anything about the break in to my study, Toby?\'94\
\'93Your study was broken into Mr Finch? That\'92s terrible.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93Yes,\'94 said Finch, his voice low and mean. \'93It is terrible. Terrible and unforgivable.\'94 He turned to Toby, his face a picture of tension and anger, \'93I will not be mocked, not by a bunch of children.\'94\
\'93How do you know it was a child?\'94\
\'93It must have been a child. I trust everyone else.\'94\
Toby wondered if that meant all of the adults were in on Finch\'92s secret. Maybe they were all Nazis. It would make sense for Mrs Finch to be a Nazi if Finch was, but Collins and Braithwaite too? Those guys seemed as East End and Royalist as it came. They would cuff you if you so much as smirked at the King.\
\'93Well then,\'94 said Toby, \'93which child? Perhaps I could keep an eye on them?\'94\
\'93Yes, you will keep an eye on everyone Toby,\'94 said Finch with a nasty, lop-sided smile, \'93but I was thinking of something else. Maybe a test.\'94\
\'93A test.\'94 Toby smiled. \'93What kind of test?\'94\
\'93A loyalty test.\'94\
\'93Good idea.\'94 said Toby. \'93Which child should we give the loyalty test to Mr Finch?\'94 he asked, knowing\'a0that\'a0he might not like the answer.\
\'93I thought we\'92d start with you.\'94 said Finch, his eyes boring into Toby.\
Toby did everything he could to not twitch or wince. \'93Me? It\'92s unlikely that I would break into your study.\'94\
\'93Is it?\'94 Finch asked. \'93Why is that?\'94\
\'93Because\'85\'94 said Toby, unsure of what he was about to say, \'93because I could get access anytime, couldn\'92t I? I\'92m in here now. You invite me in all the time.\'94\
\'93That\'92s true.\'94 Finch wrinkled his nose. \'93Nevertheless I think it\'92s time you did some leadership training.\'94\
\'93All right.\'94 said Toby, sounding much more confident than he felt, \'93Let\'92s do it - fire away!\'94\
\'93You want to do it now?\'94 asked Finch.\
\'93No time like the present.\'94\
Finch turned and faced out the window, looking down on the kitchen garden where some of the orphans would be working. \'93Now let\'92s see, who\'92s been a naughty girl then?\'94\
His hand wandered over the window, picking out the girls below.\
With a sudden jolt of horror Toby realised that Esme, June and Vera would be among the dozen or so girls working on the herbs.\
\'93This one.\'94 said Finch, pointing to Esme and turning towards him. \'93Go and get that girl will you? There\'92s a good chap.\'94\
*\'a0Toby felt sick as he walked down into the garden and tapped Esme on the shoulder. Her smile froze when she saw his face.\
\'93What\'92s wrong?\'94 she asked.\
\'93Everything. Finch suspects it was me who broke into his room, and now he\'92s giving me a loyalty test.\'94 He couldn\'92t look her in the eye. \'93A loyalty test that involves you. I don't know what it is.\'94\
Esme nodded and looked serious. \'93I\'92ll play the game, don\'92t worry.\'94\
Toby held her hand as they walked together back up the stairs to Finch's study. \
*\'a0Finch motioned Esme into the middle of the room and then handed Toby his strap, a long tail of tough old leather. It was an ugly thing to hold and Toby knew how much it hurt to have it bought down on your palm. Toby felt like he was going to cry and had to take a couple of short breaths to calm himself.\
\'93Now Esme, did you go to bed late last night?\'94 said Finch, inventing a crime on the spot, as he often did.\
\'93Yes Mr Finch, as it happens I did go to sleep a little later than I should have last night.\'94\
\'93That\'92s worth the strap, isn\'92t it?\'94 said Finch to Toby.\
\'93Yes sir, one strap, at most.\'94 said Toby, looking Esme in the eye as best he could.\
\'93I agree," said Finch, adding, "but let\'92s not bother with that.\'94\
Toby let out a sigh of relief and smiled at Esme. She shook her head very slightly - only her brother would see a gesture that small from her. She was telling him it wasn\'92t over yet.\
\'93Let\'92s ask Esme a far more interesting question," said Finch, "let\'92s ask her if she knows who broke into my study today.\'94\
\'93Yes, Mr Finch, that is a much better question.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93So ask it, boy.\'94\
Toby looked Esme squarely in the face. \'93Do you know who broke into Mr Finch\'92s study?\'94\
\'93No, I do not.\'94 said Esme, her voice earnest and strong.\
\'93Very good.\'94 said Finch. \'93Now ask her six more times, and every time she tells you she doesn't know, give her the strap.\'94\
It was the hardest thing he had ever done in his life. The only reason he could get through it was because he knew Esme would be furious with him if he gave himself up.\
Esme was a brick. She didn\'92t cry or shout or even smile, she just answered six times that she didn\'92t know who it was and then waited for the whish of the strap as it sliced the air. \
After the last time he brought down the lash Toby looked at Finch, making sure to control the new hatred he felt towards him. Finch wasn\'92t smiling or sneering as Toby expected. He looked impressed, like the twins had surprised him.\
\'93I don\'92t think she knows anything, Mr Finch.\'94 Toby said.\
\'93I would have to disagree with you, Toby.\'94 replied Finch, his voice unusually calm. \'93I think she knows everything. I think you both know everything.\'94 Finch turned to look out the window, speaking quietly to himself, \'93It doesn\'92t matter now. It\'92s all over and we have won.\'94\
Finch stayed staring out the window, looking up into the sky, as if he were looking to God for an answer. After a couple of minutes it seemed like Finch had forgotten they were there. \
Toby looked at Esme, who was holding her hand under her armpit and looking very red in the face. \'93May we go, Mr Finch?\'94 Toby asked, keen to get Esme out of there.\
\'93What?\'94 Finch looked back from the window and took a second to realise\'a0that\'a0they were both still in the room. He waved his hand at them, then moved towards the desk, muttering something to himself.\
Toby and Esme walked calmly to the door and closed it behind them.\
\'93Sorry.\'94 he said, though the words were barely adequate.\
\'93Don\'92t worry,\'94 she said, \'93there\'92s nothing I wouldn\'92t do for my younger brother.\'94\
He started to say that he was the oldest and she laughed at him. He laughed too and together they walked back down to the kitchen garden, ready to work on the vegetables and help prepare the meal for the evening.\
*\'a0When she saw Esme\'92s hand, Vera went\'a0over\'a0to the lavender plot and, careful not to be seen by Braithwaite, stripped the leaves off one sprig, then disappeared into the kitchen. A few minutes later she came back with a muslin rag soggy with oil and crushed lavender leaves.\
\'93Put this on your hand whenever you get the chance, it will help.\'94 said Vera, pressing the bag into the welts on Esme's hand.\
\'93Thanks Vera.\'94 Esme gratefully closed her sore hand around it.\
\'93How come you never did that for me when I got the strap?\'94 said Toby.\
\'93Because you\'92re a boy, idiot.\'94 said Vera, scowling.\
*\'a0As he stabbed his fork into the earth, lifting weeds and slamming them into a wheel barrow, Toby felt angry. No, he felt enraged. Finch was more than a bully, he was evil. What man would make a child strap their own sister? Toby shook with hatred and he imagined going straight back up stairs and punching him as hard as he could. Of course that would be a pointless gesture and Toby forced himself to keep working - he would be no good to anyone if he was put in solitary.\
After half an hour he had calmed down and after another hour he was enjoying doing the gardening again. Finch seemed to think that gardening was some kind of punishment, but Toby and Esme both loved it. It was a kind of everyday magic to work the earth and have vegetables slowly rise from it when they came into season. He never tired of the small kitchen garden where the herbs and delicate plants lived. Just looking at the fresh greenery reminded him that there were natural cycles that governed their lives, something bigger than their own small cares.\
He often thought that he would like to be a gardener when he got out of the orphanage. He could do an apprenticeship, maybe in one of the orchards further up the Lee Valley. He imagined himself warm in the sun, looking out on a glade of apple trees, their branches swaying like happy children holding their arms up in a gentle breeze.\
And it was while he was relaxed and thinking about nothing much that he had an idea, a way to get Finch to show if he was a Nazi or not.\
\'93Heil Hitler,\'94 he muttered under his breath.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 A salute\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 \'93Heil Hitler!\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 The shout came loud and clear across the room, as planned. \
All the other children in the dining room looked at the child who said it in horror, but Toby had his eyes fixed on just one person. Finch. The next second would reveal everything.\
*\'a0Last night the Walthamstow Reds had talked for hours. Toby had called the Red together and jokingly called it a War Council and, silly though it sounded, the name stuck. June had a spare notebook and she wrote \'91Walthamstow Reds War Council\'92 on the front of it in pencil. Her writing was so neat it looked like she used a ruler to line it up. Robin dragged their work table and chairs into the middle of the room, lit candles for it, and the six of them took their places around it, their faces dancing in the flickering yellow light.\
Toby\'92s plan was simple, it only took a couple of minutes to tell the about it. They all agreed immediately it was the thing to do. June wrote the date on a page, then added \'93Secret decision one: Agreed by all.\'94 \
The problems started when they tried to agree who was going to do it.\
Toby was ruled out immediately by Esme. \'93It can\'92t be Toby. If he does it, Finch will know that he had found him out. Toby would go straight to Solitary.\'94\
\'93Agreed.\'94 said Vera. \'93Not Toby.\'94\
\'93I agree too.\'94 said Robin.\
\'93Well I don\'92t!\'94 said Toby. \'93I\'92m already in trouble, so it might as well be me.\'94\
\'93Let\'92s vote on that then.\'94 said Esme, coolly looking at Toby who was about to protest again. \'93It\'92s a war council, isn\'92t it? We should all have a say.\'94 \
Toby shrugged. \'93I guess so.\'94\
\'93So let\'92s talk it through and then vote.\'94 said Esme.\
No one disagreed.\
\'93Okay,\'94 said Vera, \'93I think it should be one of the girls.\'94\
\'93What?!\'94 said Toby, outraged at the idea.\
\'93Why not?\'94 said Esme. \'93Girls can do anything that boys can.\'94\
\'93They can, it\'92s true.\'94 said Robin, a surprising thing for him to say, thought Toby, since Robin never said anything nice about girls, ever. \'93They can do anything that boys can. With one exception - they shouldn\'92t do anything important.\'94\
Vera threw a balled up pair of socks at him. Robin flicked them away from his face at the last minute, laughing at her.\
\'93Are you going to listen to my reasoning, Robin?\'94 Esme said calmly, like she was talking to a baby.\
Robin shrugged, his fun over for now.\
\'93Tell us your reason Esme.\'94 said Phillip. \
\'93Thanks Phillip.\'94 said Esme, acknowledging his help. \'93I think it should be a girl because Finch won\'92t hurt them. Well, not as much.\'94\
Phillip nodded \'93That makes sense.\'94\
\'93It should be me.\'94 said Esme.\
Toby found himself standing up suddenly and wagging his finger at his sister. \'93No! You\'92ve already suffered enough!\'94 He pointed at her hand, the lavender bag still in it.\
Esme shrugged. \'93It\'92s just pain.\'94\
\'93Just pain?!\'94 gasped Toby. \'93No!\'94\
\'93I\'92ll do it then.\'94 chipped in June, as if she was offering to get someone a piece of toast from the rack at breakfast.\
\'93No,\'94 said Toby, shaking his head, "not you June."\
\'93Definitely not.\'94 said Robin, backing Toby up.\
\'93Why not?\'94 asked June, her beaky face creased with confusion.\
\'93Because you are a terrible liar.\'94 said Esme.\
\'93No I am not!\'94\
Everyone laughed then, everyone but June, who looked offended.\
Esme spoke in a soft voice, \'93June you are the smartest child in the orphanage by a country mile, but your skills don\'92t extend to deception. If anyone asks you a question you would tell them the absolute truth. Lying is simply not in you.\'94\
\'93Is that true? Really?\'94 asked June, looking for someone to give her an answer. \'93Phillip?\'94\
She asked Phillip because he wasn\'92t much of a liar either. It wasn\'92t that Phillip couldn\'92t lie but he wasn\'92t quick enough to back up a lie with another one. Once you told one lie you usually had to tell a whole pile of others, quickly, and that required thinking on the spot.\
Phillip closed his eyes, like he didn\'92t want to say anything, like he wanted the problem to go away. When he opened them again everyone was still looking at him.\
He sighed. \'93June you cannot lie. You\'92re even worse than I am.\'94\
\'93That bad?\'94 asked June.\
Phillip nodded and hung his head.\
\'93Well, I can see I\'92m not needed here then!\'94 June, closed her notebook, turned away from the group and flopped down on her bed.\
\'93I\'92ll do it.\'94 whispered Vera. \'93I can lie and I haven\'92t done anything brave yet.\'94 She paused and looked into their faces one by one. \'93And it\'92s about time I did something brave.\'94\
Toby was surprised. He\'92d always thought Vera was just into clothes and what things looked like, but here she was putting herself forward.\
\'93Let's vote on that.\'94 said Robin. Toby thought he could hear the relief in Robin\'92s voice.\
\'93All right.\'94 said Esme, \'93Who votes in support of Vera doing it?\'94\
Four hands went up. Vera, Esme, Robin and Philip. Toby wasn\'92t going to win this one. He raised his hand too.\
*\'a0So it was Vera who yelled out \'91Heil Hitler\'92 at the top of her voice, just as Finch came into the kitchen for breakfast, Mrs Finch following close behind.\
A heart beat later, as if by magic, Finch\'92s right hand shot up, his back straightened and he barked \'91Heil Hitler\'92 as he gave the Nazi salute to fifty children, his wife, the cook and the gardener.\
A gasp of shock went around the room and everyone seemed to freeze for a moment. It can\'92t have been long, a second or two, but it seemed like forever. Toby, ready for it, had time to look around. \
He saw the dumbfounded look of horror on Mrs Finch\'92s face. He saw the teacup of the slack-jawed Collins tilt forward towards the table, a wave of tea leaping into the air. He saw children missing their mouths with their porridge spoons as they turned towards Finch. And he saw the transformation of Finch\'92s face. He started proud and strong, then there was the awful moment when he realised what he\'92d done, followed by the desperate flick of his eyes as he looked around the room to see who had tricked him.\
Toby was glad to see that Vera had already put her hand down and turned to the table. Finch didn't see who had made the salute. What he did see was a sea of outraged children. Everyone knew instantly what it revealed, what it meant. The Anglican Curate who ran the orphanage was a Nazi sympathiser.\
Finch spun to look at his wife. They shared a look and then she waved him away distastefully, like she might dismiss a child who had wet their pants. Silently, shamefully, Finch left the room, not looking back, leaving his wife to clear up the mess.\
She pulled herself up to her full height and regarded the room. Her usually red face had washed out to white. She looked like a ghost. But she didn\'92t falter.\
\'93Back to your breakfast. And quietly.\'94 was all she said. She didn\'92t need to say it loudly, the room was still dead quiet, but it was obvious that anyone who didn\'92t do exactly what she said would be in for a bad day. Or a bad life.\
All the children turned back to their plates of porridge as one and started eating.\
\'93I simply don\'92t understand how he could be a traitor. He\'92s English, how could he like the Nazis?\'94 said June under her breath.\
Toby shrugged. \'93Maybe he\'92s not happy with his lot." he whispered, "I mean what adult would think looking after us was a fun thing to do with your life?\'94\
\'93Mr Cage liked us.\'94 pointed out Vera.\
\'93He didn't like me very much.\'94 muttered Robin.\
Vera shot back, \'93There was good reason for that.\'94\
Esme cut them off before they started getting nasty. \'93Come on, we have to stick together, remember?\'94\
\'93Now more than ever.\'94 said Toby, darkly.\
Esme looked at him. She could tell he had something on his mind. \'93What is it Toby?\'94\
He shrugged. \'93Anything could happen, right?\'94\
\'93I still don\'92t understand it.\'94 said June, as if no one else had said anything.\
\'93It\'92s simple,\'94 said Vera. \'93Finch can see what way the wind is blowing. He knows the Germans will be here soon, and he wants to be in with them. What\'92s that called, Esme?\'94\
\'93Collaboration.\'94\
\'93That\'92s it! He\'92s a collaborator.\'94\
June looked at Vera. \'93So what what does that mean for us?\'94\
No one had an answer to that. None of them could see into the future.\
Toby sighed. \'93I\'92ve just figured something out. I feel so stupid.\'94\
\'93What is it Toby?\'94 Vera was looking at him, scared.\
\'93He\'92s been trying to recruit me. He wants me to be a Nazi too.\'94\
*\'a0When the big railway clock they lived by reached eight, Toby stood, walked to the front of the dining room and reached up to the small ship's bell and softly pulled the ringer from one side to the other. As the bells warm sound rippled off the brick walls all the children got up and walked out to their next task. \
Watching them file out of the room with downcast eyes Toby realised that everyone was scared and worried. Deeply worried. The little kids looked like they were on the verge of tears and looked at him like he was the problem.\
He felt a sudden sense of responsibility. Hadn\'92t it been his idea to expose Finch? Well they had done that and what good had come of it? Nothing. Toby had to think of a way to make Finch\'92s mistake a good event for the orphanage. Amongst the ongoing tension of the new blitz and the threat of invasion there had to be some good news. And he had better find some, fast.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Truth to a vicar\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Every Sunday the whole orphanage walked along Shernall Road, up Church Hill Road and then into St Mary\'92s parish church for the morning service. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 All the locals were there and everyone wore their Sunday Best. It was the one event that made the children feel like they belonged to a community. People even smiled at them, though Toby always thought they only smiled so they didn\'92t have to actually talk to them.\
The orphans had the worst seats, up the stairs and beside hissing and farting organ, right at the back. The children from the church day school, the children with parents, sat downstairs in tight wooden pews and if any of them looked up the back towards the orphans their parents would tell them off.\
Toby liked the church. It was really old and had some excellent old plaques in it, some with skulls and skeletons and strange old English epitaphs in curly writing about \'91extravagance\'92 and \'91fins\'92. June told him recently that those long \'91f\'92s, the one\'92s with the tails, were actually pronounced as an \'91s\'92. Suddenly the epitaphs made a lot more sense. What he was sure about was that those old folks were really scared of the devil, and there was only one way out - to obey God and his representative on earth, the vicar.\
Pethergrew was talking from the pulpit, giving his weekly sermon. Pethergrew was an old man, at least forty, whose hairline was creeping up his dome and who wore glasses with the thickest lenses Toby had ever seen, like a pair of goggles a motorcycle rider might wear. \
Today\'92s sermon was was about unconditional love and about how we should forgive everyone everything instantly. Pethergrew seemed really wrapped up in it, his voice had gone all dreamy and he looked up to heaven a lot. It seemed a strange thing to be talking about, specially when everyone had half an ear out for the air raid siren. Even though the church had a crypt it wasn\'92t very big or very deep. Toby had no doubt that there wouldn't be room for the orphans if a V6 came over.\
Toby was sure they should be worrying more about stopping the evil Germans from invading England than forgiving them. If Toby was the Vicar he would have been talking about how to spot a German plane in the sky, or how to make a better blackout curtain.\
Toby looked over to Finch, who had reappeared this morning, not saying a word to anyone. It seemed that Finch\'92s way of coping with the humiliation of the other day was to hide. But it would have looked strange if he had missed church - that would have been noticed. Finch sat quietly as Pethergrew wound up the sermon with a prayer and managed a barely audible \'91amen\'92, but it seemed an effort.\
Twenty minutes later, as the service came to a close and the congregation were shaking hands over the pews and wishing each other well, Toby felt his palms get sweaty. And when it was their turn to get out of their seats and walk back downstairs his legs had a moment when they felt weak and spidery.\
\'93You all right?\'94 asked Esme.\
\'93Good.\'94 said Toby tersely, doing his best to smile.\
She had no idea what he was about to do, none of the other Walthamstow Reds did. Toby knew that broke the rules but this was a risk he needed to take alone.\
As they wound down the stairs Toby dropped to the back of the group, letting Esme past him. She looked at him, knowing something was up, but he knelt down and pretended to tie his shoelace. That kept her off his trail.\
He stood up and followed the rest of the children down the stairs but instead of turning right and out onto the path in front of the Church he turned left and joined the throng of the congregation.\
Suddenly amongst them all Toby felt small and insignificant. Everyone was smartly dressed, despite the war rationing, and even in his best, most clean, clothes he felt shabby. The men wore trilby hats, women wore heavy day dresses and gloves and the children looked like perfect little versions of the adults. Everyone clutched a cup of tea and chattered politely. Some people looked down at him as he scooted through the crowd, perhaps wondering how such a dirty child had got into the church, but he was moving quickly and no one had a chance to pull him up.\
After a couple of minutes moving around at random he saw Pethergrew and quickly moved to striking distance. Pethergrew was talking to a very old woman in a wheelchair, talking loudly and having to repeat himself as the old woman had bad hearing. The lady didn\'92t notice that Pethergrew was irritated by her. Must be difficult to pretend to be nice all the time, thought Toby.\
As Pethergrew managed to separate himself from the old lady Toby walked up to him, grabbed his sleeve and pulled him around to look at him.\
\'93What are you doing, boy?!\'94 gasped Pethergrew.\
Toby turned to face him. \'93Sorry Vicar, but I have something very urgent to tell you, something about the orphanage, about Mr Finch.\'94\
Pethergrew eyed him suspiciously, \'93And who are you?\'94\
\'93Toby. Toby Tunstall, Sir. From the orphanage.\'94\
Toby was doing his best to look serious and grown up. \'93It is really very important, Sir.\'94\
\'93Very well, follow me.\'94 Pethergrew sounded angry at being collared in such a way, but his curiosity had got the better of him. He swept away to the back of the church, toward the sacristy. Toby scampered to keep up, looking back to check that no one had seen him break away.\
The sacristy was a small, dark room used to store candles and vestments. Pethergrew started to untie his elaborate robes. \'93What is it then?\'94 he barked.\
Toby had imagined that Pethergrew might be a nicer person, considering all his sermons about Christian love, but up close Pethergrew simply looked harassed. For a moment Toby wondered if he were doing the right thing.\
Then he remembered why he was here. He had no choice, what he had to say was more important than how he felt about the Vicar.\
\'93It\'92s Finch, Mr Finch,\'94 began Toby, his voice sounding louder than he expected in the small echoing room. \'93Finch is a Nazi.\'94\
Toby had imagined that Pethergrew would be shocked, or that he might get angry. Instead he looked at Toby with an amused smile. \'93A Nazi, you say?\'94\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\'93And you have proof, do you?\'94 Pethergrew said this like he was indulging a five year old.\
\'93It\'92s true, yes.\'94 Toby\'92s voice started to rise as he tried to drive his point home.\
\'93Out with it then.\'94\
Toby quickly told him about the German articles in the Bible and the \'91Heil Hitler\'92 incident in the dining room.\
Pethergrew listened, continuing to take off his robes and tidy up after the service. He stopped to look at Toby only when he had finished talking.\
\'93What you are saying - these are very serious accusations,\'94 said Pethergrew looking over the top of his glasses at Toby.\
\'93Yes. Yes I know. But it\'92s important to the church, to know these kind of things.\'94\
The Vicar went back to stacking bibles. \'93It would be important, if it were true.\'94\
Toby realised that Pethergrew simply didn\'92t believe him. \
He felt ill. All this for nothing? And if he didn\'92t get back to the orphanage soon he would be in deep trouble.\
The Vicar smiled at Toby. \'93You\'92ve been reading too many war stories. You have a good imagination. Go back and forget all this nonsense. There is no way there could be Nazis inside the Church of England.\'94\
Toby turned and ran.\
He sprinted like the wind to try and get back to the children before they reached the orphanage. Rounding the corner from Prospect Hill onto Shernall Road he could see them about fifty yards in front, walking towards the final turn. \
He had about twenty seconds to make the distance.\
Putting his head down he ran even harder, his breath coming in ragged short gasps. He felt like he wasn\'92t in his body, that it was running for him, somewhere below. He was close, another ten seconds, another twenty yards and he\'92d be there.\
He almost made it too. But he tripped on a tree root that had worked its way above the footpath. He flew forward, landing knees and hands first on the rough tarmac. He got up quickly, but looking down he saw he had scraped the skin off his knees and they were bleeding. Trails of bright red blood started to run down his shins. He couldn\'92t help himself - he yelled out in pain and shock.\
Up ahead the children turned into the orphanage gate. Esme was last in, looking back at the stricken Toby, wondering what he had done.\
Toby looked up to see the gate close, and then, seconds later, Finch coming back out and walking towards him.\
Shaking now, Toby could barely stand. His face a storm, Finch reached him, roughly grabbed his jacket and started to drag him back to the orphanage.\
Finch hissed into his ear, \'93What have you been doing, boy?\'94\
Toby was trying not to cry. All he could manage was to shake his head.\
\'93Don\'92t doubt that I will find out.\'94 spat Finch. \'93And now,\'94 he said, pushing Toby through the gate, \'93I\'92ve got a terrific excuse to break you.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Solitary\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Toby knew exactly where he was going. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Solitary. \
Finch marched him from the street into the house, down the steps, past the doors to the big cellar, along a narrow low corridor to a tiny, chest-high door. Opening it, Finch pushed Toby in, and swung the door closed behind Toby before he even had time to turn around.\
Toby managed not to call out or beg as Finch walked away, but only just. He knew there might be consequences when he tried to talk to Pethergrew so he shouldn\'92t have been surprised to end up here, but the truth was he had not let himself think about it.\
Now here he was, and here he would stay for a while. He sighed and looked around. The walls seemed to be made of black earth and they oozed slime. The only furniture was a narrow wooden bed with a couple of old blankets on it that smelt of rotten cat and a straw mattress that turned up at the edges, like an old piece of mouldy bread. An ancient and corroded tin bucket stood in a corner, that must be the toilet. There was a small, high window made of old glass and you while you couldn\'92t see anything through it you could get a sense of what time of the day it was.\
For the first few hours, still feeling upset and sore from the fall, he paced the room. Five steps along, then five steps back. Five steps along, then five steps back. \
Later, when the shock had worn off, he lay down on the bed and looked up at the rough cement ceiling and wondered how long he would be down here and what would happen to him now. Finch could put him out on the street, that was a very real possibility. Without Esme. That\'92s what scared him most, not having to survive on his wits or living on the street, but living without his sister. Who would be talk to? Who would he tease? Who would provide him with advice? Even now it hurt him that she wouldn\'92t know what had happened to him. He felt bad for not including her in his plan - she would be fearfully worried.\
Much later, when the final bells of the day had rung and Toby was lying in complete darkness, he thought about Esme again. He imagined that he could reach right through the walls and floors of the orphanage and hold her hand. It might have been fanciful, but it helped. He felt less lonely and sore and, even though he was cold and his knees ached, he was able to sleep.\
Next morning he woke to the creaking of the door. A bowl of porridge appeared, pushed in at floor level before the door swung closed again. It was the first food he\'92s had since breakfast the day before. He fell on it and ate it all in a minute, so fast he almost made himself sick. He promised himself he would eat slower next time.\
As he sat on the floor he noticed that there was a small patch under the bed that was less black. He shuffled over and reached right up near the wall. His fingers grazed something. He pulled it out. A tatty old Bible. He wished it had been something he actually wanted to read but then anything was better than nothing. He tossed it on the bed then sat and wondered what to do with his day.\
What Finch wanted was to break Toby\'92s spirit, so what he had to do was invent ways to keep himself active and mentally alert. So he made himself a schedule.\
At the sound of the work bell he started to do exercises. He made himself do press-ups, star-jumps and sit-ups, one hundred of each. It was hard work, specially the press-ups, and he had to shout at himself to keep going to one hundred. When he was finished he shook out all his limbs and did a series of stretches before resting. His muscles were sore, but it stopped him worrying about his knees and it felt good to exercise.\
After a lunch of watery stew he made himself do the times table up to twelve twice over then tried to remember as many formulas and maths rules as he could, like all the ways to figure out circumferences and areas. He used the formulas to try and work out the surface area of the walls, floor and ceiling of the cell, forcing his brain to work as hard as his body had earlier.\
After that he spent the rest of the day reading the Bible. Having no idea how long he was going to be in here he thought he might as well start at the beginning, so he started with Genesis. \
In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.\
Reading the Bible in school was pretty boring. Adults always wanted you to read a certain part of it and then they would tell you what it meant. Toby discovered that if you read it for yourself it was much more interesting.\
It full of violent stories. The God in the early part of the bible was a long way from Pethergrew\'92s all-forgiving God. He was tough and mean and prone to having favourites. Toby found himself captivated and read right until the light petered out.\
When night fell and he was left sitting in the cold and dark he realised that night time would require his best efforts to remain positive. He thought he should probably pray, but he wasn\'92t sure that the God he was reading about would have much time for a twelve year old boy stuck in a hole in the ground because he\'92d denounced a Curate. So instead he decided to believe that Esme could hear him if he talked aloud.\
He spent a while telling her everything that had happened, how he had talked to Pethergrew, how Pethergrew hadn\'92t believed him, how he had hurt himself and what it was like in solitary. Strangely, he felt that she was hearing him. It was probably just his imagination, but it was a good feeling. When he was tired he imagined again that his hand in Esme\'92s. Instead of falling asleep lonely and depressed he fell asleep feeling looked after and loved.\
In the morning he repeated the pattern. In the day he exercised, did his mental maths and then read the Bible. That night he talked to Esme.\
On the third day he started to learn parts of the Bible so that he could recite them back to himself when it was dark. He chose uplifting sections of the bible. It was good to hear a voice, even if it was just his own.\
And that's how it went for the fourth, fifth and sixth days. Exactly the same thing. Every now and then he got the sense that there was someone behind the door, standing there, listening in. When he felt that, he would stand close to the door and go deadly quiet. He thought it might be Finch, and he thought of the silence as a battle of wills. Toby would stand there, still and waiting, until he sensed the presence was gone.\
Somewhere in the course of the week Toby realised he really liked the Bible. It was so much bigger than The Church made out. Yes, it had plenty about morals and love, but it had magic and jealousy and fighting and epic struggles as well. But the most important thing was there were plenty of stories about people persevering in times of oppression. Jesus in the time of the Romans, the Israelites in the time of Egypt. There were plenty of people in the past who had suffered and made it through, and he could too.\
So when the door was pulled open on the morning of the seventh day of his confinement, he walked out without even looking at Finch as he passed, feeling better and stronger than when he went in. He was skinnier and his eyes took a while to adapt to the sunlight, but he felt he had won a victory over Finch, a victory fought in will power and played out in silence.\
*\'a0When he walked into the dining room for breakfast Esme couldn\'92t help herself. She bounded up to him, smiling, and wrapped her arms around him. In front of everyone.\
Normally he would push her off. He didn\'92t want anyone to see him being so mushy, let alone all the children in the orphanage, but today he held her for a couple of seconds before he walked with her back to the Reds\'92 table.\
Sitting down, he shook hands with everyone, and launched himself\'a0into his porridge.\
When Toby had wolfed his own down, Phillip pushed his bowl towards him. \'93Leave me something.\'94 he said.\
Toby ate a quarter of it, then Robin pushed his bowl forward. Everyone at the table gave Toby a portion of their meal. By the time June pushed hers at him he was bursting, but he felt he should be fair and so he choked down some of that too.\
Once he had finished Esme spoke. \'93So Pethergrew didn\'92t believe you?\'94\
Toby was confused. \'93How do you know that?\'94\
Esme smiled, \'93You told me, remember?\'94\
Stunned, Toby asked her what she was talking about.\
\'93You spoke to me, every night.\'94\
Everyone around the table looked at Esme. The look of disbelief on Junes\'92 face was comical. Robin just about lost his porridge snorting with disbelief.\
\'93I did,\'94 said Toby, \'93but I thought I was talking to myself.\'94\
\'93I heard every word.\'94 Esme continued. \'93Ask me something I couldn\'92t possibly know.\'94\
Toby thought for a second. \'93I know. Tell me who the Vicar was talking to before me.\'94\
Esme shot back, \'93An old lady in a wheelchair. You said he couldn\'92t hear her, that he was impatient.\'94\
Toby couldn\'92t believe it.\
\'93Is that right?\'94 asked Esme.\
\'93Yes,\'94 said Toby quietly, \'93that\'92s exactly right.\'94\
The others looked at them like they were mad. Toby decided it would be best if they talked about something else.\
\'93So what\'92s been happening up here, then?\'94 asked Toby.\
Esme looked at him strangely. \'93Didn\'92t you hear what I said to you?\'94\
\'93No.\'94 admitted Toby. \'93I didn\'92t know it went both ways. I wasn\'92t listening.\'94\
She smiled. \'93It\'92s a conversation, silly.\'94\
Anxious to cover up his failure Toby asked, \'93So what\'92s Finch been up to? Has the church done anything about him?\'94\
Vera spoke to the others. \'93He doesn\'92t know, does he?\'94\
Esme shook her head. Phillip looked down at the floor and Robin pretended to be interested in his spoon.\
\'93What is it?\'94 asked Toby, feeling alarmed that no one would tell him what was going on. Esme pushed a piece of paper and a pencil into the middle of the table.\
\'93You are going to write down what I'm saying in my head. Words from the front of the newspaper.\'94\
Toby laughed. \'93But that\'92s impossible!\'94\
She shrugged. \'93Let\'92s just try it.\'94\
Toby shrugged, pulled the paper towards him, picked up the pencil, then looked at Esme.\
She held his gaze. Everyone at the table was quiet and intent, wondering if anything would happen.\
For a while Toby nothing happened. He felt a little stupid with all of them watching him, but then, like he was opening a parcel in his mind, he heard three words distinctly and clearly. Without thinking he wrote them down and held them up for all to see.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280\qc

\b \cf0 GERMANS\
INVADE\
BRITAIN\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\fs22 \cf0 \page \pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\fs44 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440

\f1 \cf0 Part 2 \'96 We fight back\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Trouble\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280

\b0 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280\qc

\b \cf0 GERMANS\
INVADE\
BRITIAN\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280

\b0 \cf0 \
Toby\'92s jaw dropped. "When was this?" he asked urgently, looking around the breakfast table at the worried faces of the others.\
\'93Tuesday." said June. "Four days ago."\
"Where did they land?" asked Toby.\
Robin spoke now, "They took the East Coast ports, Lowestoft, Ipswich, South End, Frinton. Then they captured twenty five airfields in a couple of hours."\
"How did they do that?" blurted Toby, "We knew they were coming!"\
"Some of the ports were handed over intact." said Robin, darkly. "And airfields too. It seems there were collaborators. At a high level."\
Toby couldn\'92t believe it, "More Finchs!?"\
"Tons more Finchs." said Phillip. \
Robin added, "With a lot more to give away."\
June objected, "You don\'92t know that. It\'92s not in the papers."\
"How else could they take whole airfields without a fight?" Robin snapped back.\
"You shouldn\'92t jump to conclusions like that." June added, "It\'92s dangerous."\
"That\'92s a bit dramatic." said Robin, laughing at her.\
June shot back, "Facts!" she barked, "I only deal in facts!"\
Esme held up her hands, "Stop it you two!" She looked at one then the other, "It doesn't help if we fight amongst ourselves does it?"\
June and Robin both shut their mouths and looked away from each other.\
Vera touched Toby on the arm and whispered, "We\'92ve collected all the papers and hidden them upstairs, you can read them tonight."\
Toby nodded, "Thanks Vera."\
When the clock reached eight, Phillip got up from the table, shuffled over to the bell and shook it to sound the end of breakfast. The metallic ringing seemed ominous to Toby now, the sound of war approaching.\
As they worked through the day Robin gave Toby more detail on what had been happening.\
Late in the night the Germans had launched ten invasion fleets at once, figuring that The English couldn't cover them all at once. And they were right - six fleets made it to the coast without having a single bomb dropped on them. They reached harbours all around the coast early in the morning. Advanced parties of crack troops motored up to docks and wharves, jumped off and started taking control of key points. \
By the time dawn broke the defences were neutralised and occupied by Germans. The concrete bunkers, barbed-wire and radar that had guarded England's coast for ten years had been over-run in ten hours. Guns that used to point out to sea were now pointing inland, ready to be used against the English.\
The Germans launched hundreds of bombing runs against airports. They destroyed English planes before they could take off. The few planes that were able to leave the ground were picked off by the German's new long-range jet fighters. The new planes were twice as fast as anything England had.\
With the harbours secure and the air threat gone the Germans could unload their armoured divisions at the ports. They didn't even get their feet wet. Two days later the Germans had a million soldiers and a hundred thousand vehicles lined up and ready for action.\
It was an overwhelming show of force. But what was worse was that some of the ports and airports hadn't even put up a fight. It many places, the authorities just handed over the keys. Perhaps they were hoping to keep the causalities down. Or maybe there really were many more sympathisers like Finch in the country.\
The English army did manage to put up a fight eventually but it was too little too late. Two hundred thousand men fought as best they could but all they did was slow the German advance. \
At the end of the week the Germans were forty miles inland and had command of several important towns. Norwich, Ipswich, Canterbury, Brighton, Portsmouth and Southampton were all German. It was no longer question of whether the Germans would reach London, but how long it would take. \
"The Germans will be sipping tea in Buckingham Palace soon enough." said Robin. "Some say it will take a week, others ten days."\
Toby tried to imagine Nazi flags hanging off the front of Walthamstow town hall, the black fist of the swastika punching out of the scarlet background. He shivered thinking about it. He knew the Nazis only liked proper families, that they didn't like people like orphans and gypsies. Where the Church felt a moral obligation to look after them he was under no illusion that the Germans would do the same. They might throw them on the street, or force them to work in slave camps like the unfortunate citizens of so many other countries.\
For the Germans it was all about how pure your blood was. Anyone who could prove they had German blood in their family did well and got the best jobs. Anyone who wasn't white had a bad time. And so did anyone who they thought were trouble-makers, like Muslims, Jews, Romany Gypsies, Arabs. To top it off they also didn't like anyone who held ideas contrary to Nazi beliefs, which was everyone who could think for themselves.\
"They're going to do two things."\
"What's that Toby?" asked Robin, pulling up a potato and shaking it to clear the dirt. \
Toby, realised he'd been talking inside his head for a while and that Robin had no idea what he was talking about. "When they get here, the Germans." \
"Only two?" laughed Robin.\
"No no", said Toby, "Big things. First of all they're going to weed out all the people they don't like and enslave them. Then they're going to make everyone else take an oath."\
"What kind of oath?"\
"An oath to National Socialism, to the Nazi cause."\
Robin paused, then looked dismayed as he understood what Toby was saying. "You're right. That's how they'll weed out the resistors."\
"Most people will have to take the oath, they won't want to make life difficult for themselves."\
"What would you do?" Robin asked.\
"That's obvious." said Toby, "Same as you."\
"Take the oath."\
Toby couldn't believe it. "No! Not take the oath!"\
They looked at each other like they were both mad.\
Robin broke the silence first, "I don't want to die at twelve.\
"They won't kill people." Toby replied.\
"Won't they?"\
"No, people are too valuable. As slaves."\
"Right." said Robin, "So you'd rather be a slave with principles than a citizen who is lying to save their skin?"\
Toby thought about it. It didn't make much sense to be a slave, but then it wouldn't feel right to pledge allegiance to the Nazis.\
"You're not thinking it through Toby." said Robin, "It would be like church, you go along because you're expected to, not because you believe in it. Everyone does the same don't they?"\
Toby nodded. Robin had a point. \
"So your first job when the Germans arrive is to stay alive. Your second is to stay out of trouble." Robin smiled at Toby, "But then you're not good at staying out of trouble are you?"\
Toby shook his head and laughed, "No, not me!"\
"Ok then," said Robin, "So what we have to do is figure out a way of causing trouble without getting into trouble."\
Toby nodded again. "You think about being in trouble a lot don't you Robin?"\
"Nothing else!" said Robin, laughing and tossing his head in the air like a happy dog.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Leaving town\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Every child in the orphanage was sent out to the allotment to bring in as many vegetables as they could. The Reds worked shoulder to shoulder, Toby between Esme and Philip, pulling out beets and potatoes - anything looked even a little ready. \
\'91Laying down a stock\'92 was how Finch put it.\
It made sense. If the Germans got to London the children would do well to have some food in the cellar, hidden from view. It gave them the option to stay downstairs for at least a week while the fighting - if there was any - went on outside. Toby wondered if Finch wouldn't just hand the food over to the Germans as soon as they entered London.\
For the first hour of digging Toby felt bound up and awkward. The week he\'92d spent in solitary had shrunk his muscles and made him clumsy. But after a while his body started to relax and he found his rhythm again and started to enjoy gently levering up beets and placing them in the wheelbarrow. \
"Toby!" barked Esme.\
He turned to her, "What is it?"\
"You\'92re whistling!"\
"Yes?" he said. "So what?"\
Esme smiled, shook her head and went back to the plants, leaving Vera to point out what they all knew already. "You don\'92t have a musical bone in your body."\
"You sound," said Philip, thinking carefully, "like a bad wind through a wire fence."\
"Bad wind all right." added Robin, making a crude farting noise and making them all laugh.\
"Thank you every much!" said Toby, standing up and stretching his back for a second and looking past the Town Hall.\
What he saw made him stop still.\
"What\'92s that?" he asked, pointing to Forest Road.\
A line of about a dozen carts, like the ones the traders used at the market, was making its way along the road. Drawn by horses that looked like they weren\'92t used to the weight, the carts were piled high with canvas bags, small items of furniture and food. There was even a parrot in a cage on one. \
Women and children rode on them, wrapped in blankets, and the men led the horses on foot. As Toby watched a tram ding-dinged it's bell and the line lazily parted to let it through the middle.\
Robin stood up beside Toby. "They started a few days ago. Leaving London."\
"Where are they going?" asked Toby.\
Robin spoke again, his voice sounding sadder than Toby had ever heard it, "To stay with their families I guess."\
Toby stayed silent and watched the procession on the street. He was jealous. Those people had options, they had family they could stay with. They had a chance of making the German occupation tolerable. It would never be great to live under the Germans, but it would be better in the countryside where there would be less of them. \
Vera stood up too and put her hand on Robin\'92s shoulder. With a small shock Toby realised that Robin was sniffling, the comment about families must have got to him.\
Toby was saved having to say anything by Braithwaite who saw the three of them standing there, and shouted at them in his deep voice.\
"You lot - back to work!"\
What had started as a few carts in the morning had become a traffic jam by the afternoon. Hundreds of people were on the road now. There were horse-drawn carts, hand carts and even wheelbarrows stacked with goods. There was even the occasional motor car, peeping and tooting, trying to muscle through. From the allotment it looked like a funeral procession, everyone in long coats, the colours black or brown. And completely silent. Whatever snatches of conversation there were were dusted away by a faint breeze. \
"There\'92s a lot more people than yesterday." said Vera who stood by beside him.\
"It's really horrible." he said.\
"Like watching hope slowly drain from the city." said Vera.\
Toby looked at her with admiration, that was a great description, 'hope slowly draining from the city'. While he had never seen the point of a lot of what Vera did with her sewing and bows and pictures she certainly had a great way of describing things. It made him smile. Despite how bleak everything was he was glad they were all together. Nothing would be worse than facing this alone. \
Toby went back to work and ignored the sight of people leaving as best as he could, trying to keep his mind on his task. \
They toiled for hours making great heaps of vegetables. Bean, beats, turnips and Toby\'92s least favourite of all things, rhubarb. Their cooks never added sugar to it and every autumn they struggled through bowls of the stuff, stringy and bitter. Collins, the cook, optimistically called it \'91dessert\'92.\
It turned out the hardest work was not the digging, but trying to get the veggies back to the orphanage. The first barrow of potatoes that Toby piloted through the crowd was almost empty by the time he made it across the road. With both hands on the handles he was helpless to stop people taking as much as they wanted. He asked them to stop, then shouted at them, but nothing worked.\
The second time over he got The Walthamstow Reds to crowd around the barrow of beets as he pushed it. They slapped away hands as best they could and this time they only lost the top layer of vegetables. They did a couple of loads like this, but it was slow going. In the end Braithwaite called a halt and sent the children back to the Orphanage for dinner.\
Toby looked at his plate without any enthusiasm. Because they were being careful with food they were using up the old vegetables. The only decent way of eating it was in vegetable stew, and they would be having it all week.\
"We could run away." said Robin through mouthfuls of boiled cabbage. "We could run away and go and live in the forest."\
"What forest?" said Vera scornfully.\
"Dunno." said Robin, "Epping Forest?"\
June looked at him as if he was mental. "In winter? We wouldn\'92t make it, it\'92s too cold. There\'92s no food."\
"We\'92d come back into Walthamstow for the food."\
June\'92s eyebrows shot up, "Steal it from the market would we?"\
"Why not?"\
Toby sighed, "Because we\'92d go to prison that\'92s why not."\
Robin didn\'92t give up, "Prison would be warm at least."\
"Not if the Germans ran it." said June. "You don\'92t think things through do you Robin?"\
Robin shook his head. "If all you do is think you never get anything done do you?"\
Toby thought Robin had a point. Why just sit here and wait to be taken prisoner? But when he tried to think of a practical way for them to escape the orphanage and look after themselves he came up with nothing.\
"We\'92re better off staying here." he said. "At least until we know what\'92s going to happen."\
"What\'92s going to happen is that the Germans are going to roll through here in tanks and kill us all, that\'92s what\'92s going to happen!" said Robin.\
"Shhh!" said Esme. "You\'92ll scare the younger children."\
Robin shrugged to show he didn\'92t care, but he made no more trouble as he finished his meal.\
"Does anyone have any relatives at all they know about?" asked Vera.\
No one could look her in the eye. The silence was terrible. Between the six of them there was no one they could turn to for help.\
"Can't anyone help us?" Vera asked again, more desperate this time.\
"The church." said Esme weakly. That bought a half-hearted laugh.\
"No!" said Toby slapping his palm on the table, "We have to stay here. We can\'92t distract ourselves with thinking about things we don't have - that's pointless!"\
They all looked at him, surprised at his depth of feeling. He took a deep breath, calming himself, before he continued, "We have to look to ourselves. We have to trust that we have everything we need here, with the six of us and the other children."\
No one disagreed. Esme nodded and looked pleased with him, like she had known all along he would say this.\
When the bell rang at midnight Toby panicked for a moment thinking it might be an air raid before remembering that this was part of the plan. He pulled on his clothes and walked to the allotment with the rest of the older children, about twenty-five of them in all. It was spooky being up this late and Toby was glad there were plenty of them traveling together.\
As they crossed the road they could see that the crowds of earlier in the day were gone. Only an occasional straggler wandered up the street now, no match for all these children. \
"Stop!" hissed Robin, who was walking a few steps ahead. \
Everyone froze. "What is it?" whispered Toby.\
"A man with a gun." said Robin, his voice strained with tension.\
Toby looked carefully. There was the outline of a man there, and yes, he has hefting a shotgun. Had someone decided to take over the allotment and steal all their food? Things hadn\'92t got that bad had they?\
"Braithwaite." said Esme. "Pipe."\
Looking closer Toby could see that Esme was right. There was the faint glow of his habitual pipe and the distinctive twisted peak on his cap. What a relief.\
Braithwaite had been standing guard on the crops, a shotgun broken open over his forearm, all night. As they got closer he signaled the children over.\
"Come on you lot." he said, "Let\'92s get all this away. We should be able to finish by the morning."\
Vera groaned. "All night?"\
"I thought girls could do anything." sneered Robin, winding Vera up.\
"Come on," said Esme, "The sticking together begins now doesn't it?"\
Vera couldn't argue with that, and went over to a barrow of turnips, slapped her hands on the handles and got ready to do her bit.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 A radio show\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280

\b0 \cf0 They all sat at their allotted places in the dining room, there was nothing unusual in that. What was unusual was that they had been called in from afternoon classes by a flushed, excitable Finch. He had hurried and shooed them into the dining room like he was guiding a flock of sheep, smiling and laughing to himself as he did it.\
As soon as they all sat down Finch flicked on the big radio at the back of the room. It hadn't had much use since Mr Cage had left. Cage used to let everyone listen to music after dinner and to the comedies on a Saturday night. \
Finch tapped on the top of the radio impatiently while it warmed up, casting looks at the clock. Just before the hour, the voice of the BBC came into the room. Finch kept his finger on the tuning knob, moving it from time to time as the signal went up and down in frequency. \
Toby had a fair idea what was coming, and it wasn't going to be good news. From the grim looks on the other Red's faces he could see he wasn't alone.\
"At the sound of the bells the time will be three o'clock." said the clipped voice of the announcer. A short silence then as the whole country waited for Big Ben to start. Then the three deep, slow peels rang out of the radio.\
"The time is three o'clock, this is the BBC." said the voice beautifully, as if the occasion called for extra special way of talking. "In place of the news we have a broadcast recorded yesterday from his Majesty the King, Edward the eighth."\
That woke everyone up. The King! And why had the broadcast been recorded yesterday? What did that mean?\
"Good afternoon everybody." The Kings voice was thin and scratchy as it came off a record player and then over the radio. "As you know we are living in extraordinary and difficulty times, times that call for a clear head and the utmost bravery while we make extraordinary decisions. We will all have to make hard choices and I have already had to take a course of action which had previously been unthinkable to me. \
"It is with deep regret that I have to tell you that I have left the country. As you hear this I am already resident in a country friendly to the Commonwealth."\
All around the room children's mouths were open in disbelief. The King had left? Why? Was he scared?\
"I took this decision on advice from the Prime Minister and his cabinet. They convinced me that it was important that the reigning Monarch should be safe from harm. Personally I would have liked to take a Lee Enfield rifle, put it to my shoulder and walk out onto the fields of Essex with my regiment. I would have liked to make the German's fight for every inch of our precious land. \
"Believe me, my heart bleeds as tell you this, but I wish every one of you safety and God speed in the difficult days to come. The Prime Minister will tell you more in due course. All I can add now is that I love my country with all my heart, as I love you all. I know I will return one day to a country free to enjoy it's wealth and happiness.\
"God bless you all, and good afternoon." \
\
"Pillock." muttered Robin as voice of the King was replaced by muffled scraping.\
"What!" Vera spat at him, "How dare you! The poor man has had to flee the country!"\
"Yes," said Robin, "It's all right for him isn't it?"\
"What are you babbling about?" asked Esme.\
"The royals, they're all German anyway." Robin declared.\
Esme couldn't speak for shock and Vera looked like she was about to burst she was so red.\
"He has a point." said June.\
"What do you mean?" asked Toby.\
"Queen Victoria, a Hanoverian, married Albert Saxe-Coburg-Gotha from a Duchy \'96 that's like a small kingdom - in Germany. George the fifth changed the family name during the Great War, from Saxe-Coburg-Gotha to Windsor."\
"But," said Toby pointing to Robin, "he's trying to tell me that the King of England has run away to Germany. Or that he's a Nazi too."\
"It's not like he is going to advertise the fact is it?" blustered Robin, "But it is possible. Edward is half German."\
Phillip nodded, "It is possible." he said, "These are strange days."\
At that moment the voice on the radio came back, sounding a lot less polished this time. "It seems that... that we have an unscheduled announcement from the Prime Minister." The way the voice said 
\i unscheduled
\i0  made it seem like that was the worse thing in the world.\
There was a brief crackling noise, then a gruff, voice muttered, "Is this thing on?" It was the unmistakeable growl of Lord Beevor.\
"Yes Prime Minister, and the whole country, the whole commonwealth is listening."\
"Very good, very good." He paused then and you could practically hear him winding up the courage to speak. \
Finch, who was still tuning the radio, shouted at it, "Come on then! Spit it out man!"\
As if in reply the Prime Minister started speaking again. "This has not been an easy day. The cabinet and I have been talking for the last forty-eight hours straight but it seems there is no way out of our predicament. Either we fight a losing war and risk many lives and countless dead or we surrender and gift our country to the The Germans. We have talked both options through and many others besides, but it seems, in the end, that we must capitulate."\
"What does 'capitulate' mean?" whispered Phillip.\
"It means surrender." said Toby, bitterly.\
The Prime Minister continued with a shaky voice, "We have been in contact with Herr Speer and he will accept our surrender at midnight tonight here in London. There will be a ceasefire effective immediately."\
There was a long pause then and Toby wondered if the the man was crying.\
"I cannot be certain that we have made the right choice, but I am certain that many less will die because of that choice. I urge you to co-operate with the Germans and to be kind to your fellow British men and women. \
"We must keep our chests full of air and our chins held high even as we are occupied. We must think of a future where we will be free again and tyranny is defeated. Tyranny is always defeated in the end, because tyranny relies on terror, not democracy and good will."\
It seemed like Beevor ran out of puff then, and he lapsed into silence for a moment before he coughed and started off again. "That is all. Keep tuned to the BBC as always for news of these terrible events. \
\'93Do not despair, we will rise again."\
The radio quickly switched to classical music and the speeches were over.\
Finch snapped the radio off, stood up to his full height with a straight back and pushed his right hand up in front of him, "Seig Heil!" he bellowed before triumphantly marching out of the dining room and into the kitchen. After a moment they could hear Mrs Finch popping the cork on a bottle of champagne. This was followed by the strange, alien sound of her laughter echoing off the tiled walls. Then the two of them bounced through the kitchen, banged up the stairs to Finch's study, and slammed the door behind them. \
"Game over." said Robin, shrugging as if they had just lost the annual house football match - again.\
Toby was disgusted by Robin's attitude. "What?" said Toby, "Is that it then?"\
Robin pointed to the radio, "You heard Beevor, it's all over."\
"Yes," said June, "What can we do about it Toby?"\
Toby looked at Esme. She looked grim, her mouth a thin line of determination. She gave him a brief nod, as if she knew what he was thinking. Toby realised that she probably knew  exactly what he was thinking.\
"Four days!" he said, aware now that everyone in the room was listening to him, "That's how long we held out against the Germans. Does that seem like enough to you? Did we did a good job of fighting for our country and our King?"\
He looked around the room to see if the other children were with him or not. Most had their heads downcast, a few looked they might cry at any moment.\
"It's not long enough for me!" said Toby.\
"Nor me." said Phillip, loud enough for the whole room to hear. \
Esme said the same thing, though much quieter. "Nor me."\
"But we're children Toby, what can we do?" said Vera.\
Toby had to shrug then, "I don't know Vera, I really don't, but all I can say is.... if we put our minds to it we might be able to make a statement. We might be able to fight in someway or another."\
Children were nodding around the room, looking up at him with defiance in their eyes.\
Toby continued, "I'm not sure I could pull a trigger, or fire a gun but there must be something we can do as the Germans come in London, something to show they're not wanted." Toby paused then and saw that everyone was with him, even Robin and June. This gave him the confidence to continue.\
"We are young, we are clever - or at least June is - there are plenty of us and we don't have anything much to lose do we? A grand gesture is all it might be, but it's worth making isn't it?"\
For the next minute Toby couldn't a thing as the children bashed their enamel cups and plates on the tables in agreement.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Without a trace\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280

\b0 \cf0 The next morning Toby work up slowly, drifting up out of a dream where he had been flying around a forest. Stretching out his legs and yawning, he knew that something was weird straight away. He\'92d been woken up by the brutal clanging of that bell seven days a week for every day that he could remember. But today \'96 silence.\
The others were just waking up. One by one Toby could see them realise what was wrong. No bell. No one needed to say anything about it, this was so unusual that they all rapidly dressed and went down to breakfast, to see what was happening in the rest of the orphanage.\
The dining room was full of children all sitting at their usual places, looking confused. Toby noticed that there was no sound coming from the kitchen. He walked over, snuck his head around the door and looked in. \
Cook was nowhere to be seen. The porridge pot was empty and, touching the coal range, Toby could feel some heat from last-nights meal in the cast iron, but it hadn\'92t been stoked up this morning.\
He went and sat back down at the Walthamstow Reds' table. \'93No one there.\'94 he said quietly.\
The Reds' all sat staring at each other, no one able to say aloud what they all suspected. They had been abandoned.\
A dreadful silence descended on the dining room. You could hear the clock ticking away the seconds. From the behind him Toby could hear the snuffles of one of the smaller children as they tried to stop themselves from crying. \
"Do something." It was Esme's voice, though he couldn't be sure if she said it out loud or not. \
"Do what?" said Toby. He had as little idea as anyone else.\
\'93Go and see if anyone is left.\'94\
\'93They were drinking last night.\'94 said Robin, \'93maybe they're sleeping in?\'94\
Toby didn't think that was true, but it gave him something to do, so he nodded and stood up. Both Phillip and then Vera stood up too. He was glad of the company, he didn\'92t want to be going through the house on his own, specially if Finch was still here.\
They started with the cottage at the back of the kitchen garden, right next to the chicken house, where Braithwaite and Collins slept. 
\i Used to sleep.
\i0  \
The door was locked, but looking in through the window it was easy to see that they were both gone. Neither of them had many things to begin with, despite living at the Orphanage for as long as anyone could remember. Mostly they used the facilities in the house so they didn\'92t need much out here beyond a bed and a place to put their clothes.\
\'93They must have gone to their families, to look after them.\'94 said Toby, looking into the small, deserted room. The mattresses were tipped on their sides to air but otherwise it was like no one had ever been there. The small wardrobe was open and bare.\
\'93I thought they were like us.\'94 said Phillip, \'93Orphans.\'94\
Toby had never thought of that. They could have been orphans who stayed on. In which case they would have lived here for fifty years or more. \
\'93Then what would make them leave?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93Money? Another job?\'94 said Vera.\
\'93Who would give them another job?\'94 said Phillip.\
\'93If Mr Finch is connected with the Nazis then maybe he\'92s given them another job. Maybe he\'92s had something in mind for them all along.\'94\
Phillip nodded, \'93They've gone for ever then.\'94\
Five minutes later they were standing in the Finch\'92s bedroom. No one had ever dared to enter here before. \
It was the nicest room in the Orphanage, the large bay windows facing East got the morning sun and revealed a view over Forest Road right up to the autumnal blushes of Epping Forest. The bed was large and high and had a proper big Eiderdown blanket on top. Toby put his hand on it - he\'92d never touched anything so soft. There were small mahogany tables each side of the bed, each with an electric light with it\'92s own switch, and above the bed was a large picture of the countryside, somewhere open and sunny. Toby had never been out of North London, so he had no idea where it was. It could have been Germany for all he knew.\
\'93Nothing.\'94 said Vera, \'93They\'92ve gone too.\'94\
Toby turned and looked at the large wardrobe as Vera  pulled the doors open. Empty. Only a few wooden coat hangers dangled there.\
\'93We\'92re on our own.\'94 said Phillip, his voice caught halfway between relief and fear. \
\
Back downstairs Esme and Robin had gone about making the porridge and were getting ready to serve. Toby quickly told them what they had discovered.\
\'93You have to tell everyone Toby.\'94\
\'93Me?\'94 \
\'93Yes you.\'94 said Esme getting ready to lift the porridge pot with Robin, \'93And make it sound like a good thing. Just wait until everyone is fed.\'94\
Toby nodded and went back to the Walthamstow Reds' table.\
\
After all the children had finished their porridge Toby stood up on his bench. He could have gone to the small platform at the front of the room, the one Finch always used, but he didn\'92t want look like a Headmaster.\
He told everyone what had happened, that all the adults had gone and that they were on their own. Looking for something good to say he stumbled. He hadn\'92t thought about what they should do. He looked to Esme with a pleading expression.\
Esme stood up on her bench and spoke. "For today let\'92s just do what we normally do. We can run this place without Finch's control. We know everything we need to know already. We know what to plant, what to cook, how to bake and clean, how to get wood. We grow our own food and can get wood from the forest. We can look after ourselves well enough, we don\'92t need adults to help us."\
Listening to her Toby was impressed. His sister had a way of making people think good things about themselves. Maybe they really could look after themselves.\
"Vera!" said Esme.\
Vera jumped when Esme called out her name. "Yes Esme?"\
"You can run the kitchen. I will take the gardeners out to the allotment. Phillip you can lead the household clean up. And get some firewood from the forest."\
They all nodded as they received their tasks from Esme, Toby noticed that Esme was giving them things to do that they liked already.\
"Toby, Robin and June, you are going to stay here and start planning how to run the house and how to surprise the Germans when they turn up."\
Toby nodded and Esme turned back to the room. "So... gardeners, follow me to the allotment!"\
Esme got down from the seat and walked towards the door. As if by magic fifteen children fell in behind her, laughing and jostling for the chance to be closest.\
Vera stood up then and called out, "Whoever wants to make the best lunch and dinner... follow me!"\
Another group of children got up and made the short journey with Vera towards the kitchen.\
It was Phillip's turn then, "Everyone who wants to help out around the house, come with me." A clump of the stronger children formed around Phillip and they left the room, heading for the basement, where all the cleaning equipment lived.\
There were seven of them left. Toby, June and Robin and four other children, two of whom were the youngest in the orphanage, Alex and Ava. The other two were the two girls who would hang around June if she let them. They were a couple of years younger than her but looked like they were cut from the same cloth - thin, frail and no doubt very brainy.\
"You have a fan club June." Toby quipped. She looked at him like she had no idea what he was talking about, then noticed the two girls and jumped with surprise. \
"Fanny and Mae! What are you doing here, shouldn't you be gardening?"\
Neither of them spoke, they just returned June's stare, as if to say gardening was the last thing they wanted to do.\
"Look at them," said Robin, "neither of them looks like they could lift a carrot let alone a spade."\
Toby laughed, but shut up quickly when they both glared at him. They looked upset at not being taken seriously. Then he had an idea. "I know what you can do that would be incredibly useful."\
Their faces lit up at the prospect of having something to do.\
"You can run the junior school."\
They both looked at him like he was mad.\
"That is an excellent idea," chipped in June. "You are both terribly bright, you can read anything, and I'm sure that if you were very brave you could get up in front of a class and give a talk."\
Fanny looked at Mae, and Mae looked at Fanny, and they both looked scared. Fanny got up the courage to talk. "We are certainly bright enough but it's the talking in front of the class that might pose a difficulty."\
Toby pointed at the two other children, Alex and Ava. "Are you scared of them?"\
Mae shook her head. "No," she said, laughing, "not at at all."\
"Well there you go," said Toby, "They're your first class. I am sure you can find something a lot more interesting to do than Mrs Finch ever could?"\
Fanny snorted. "That wouldn't be hard, she was terrible!"\
"Upstairs then!" said June, briskly, as if the matter was settled once and for all.\
The four little children looked at each other but remained still.\
Toby gave them a final incentive. "I will bring some morning tea and biscuits up for you myself in an hour and see how you're getting on, how's that?"\
The newly promoted teachers nodded vigorously. Ava put her hand into Mae\'92s and started walking off to the classroom upstairs, Fannie and Alex followed.\
June looked at Toby, \'93We just started a school!\'94 she said. \'93That was easy.\'94\
\'93Now we just have to figure out how to run this place without a headmaster and give the Germans a fright.\'94 said Toby, \'93that will be somewhat harder.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Pethergrew\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280

\b0 \cf0 \'93Do you know what?\'94 said Robin, sitting down at the table and pulling the leftover porridge pot towards himself, \'93I think we could do really well out of it.\'94\
\'93That\'92s for the chickens.\'94 said Toby, pulling the pot back to the centre of the table. \'93And what do you mean \'91do really well'?\'94\
Robin sighed and put down his spoon. \'93I reckon if we can grow enough food we could start selling it down the Market.\'94\
\'93Good idea.\'94 admitted Toby. \'93But first we have to figure out if the church is still supporting us. They might know that the Finchs' have gone, it might be part of a plan. I have to go and talk to Pethergrew.\'94\
Toby didn\'92t like that thought much, Pethergrew hadn't listened to him last time.\
Robin shook his head, "They don't give a fig about us Toby, we're on our own."\
"The whole church will ignore us will they? What about the congregation?"\
"They'll be too concerned with looking after themselves. There's a war on don't you know."\
June, who had been listening in, surprised Toby by agreeing with Robin. "It's best if we think that no one will come to look after us, so if someone does then we will be in good shape won't we? Robin's plan to sell vegetables makes sense. We have a lot of things here but we need some cash for things we can't grow or make ourselves. Kerosene for the lamps, exercise books, chalk, that sort of thing."\
"Okay." said Toby, "We'll continue on the basis that we have no adults, that makes sense, but does anyone object if I go and see Pethergrew anyway? I think we should give him one more chance."\
"Knock yourself out." said Robin, making it clear he thought he was wasting his time. June just shrugged.\
After that they talked about how they would run the household, which children were best at which tasks and what timetable they should keep. They agreed they would keep to the timetable they were used to and adjust it as needed. They also agreed that children should do what they were good at and enjoyed, but also that everyone would take turns doing the dishes and cleaning up. \
"One last thing." said Toby. "We should use all the rooms of the house. We should open Finch's study, lounge and bedroom now they've gone."\
"Good idea." said Robin, "A games room.\'94\
 \'93A reading room.\'94 said June.\
\'93And a social room.\'94 said Toby, \'93That's agreed then?\'94 he asked.\
June and Robin both nodded.\
"So why don't you two sort that out while I go and see Pethergrew? It would be nice for everyone if we had those rooms ready for tonight." said Toby.\
"What about the surprise for the Germans? When will we figure that out?" said Robin, eager as ever to do some mischief. \
"We have a day or two, something will come up." He smiled and tried to radiate more confidence than he felt. \
It had been his idea and it felt good to say it at the time but he still had no idea what to actually do to teach the German\'92s a lesson. Every time he thought about the Germans the image from his dream came back. The tank turret turning and firing directly at them as they looked out from the attic window. \
\
Pethergrew was in the Graveyard, sitting on a cane chair with a cup of tea on a wooden folding table and a book in his lap. It was a fine autumn day and he was making the most of the sun. The cherry trees and willows that draped themselves over the ancient gravestones sparkled the morning light. You wouldn't know that there was a war on. \
As he got closer Toby could hear snuffly snores coming across the grass. Pethergrew was asleep. On any other day Toby would have left him to it, but today he needed to talk, so he moved closer and politely cleared his throat. \
When that didn't work he tried a small cough. And when that didn't work he poked him hard on the shoulder. \
Pethergrew woke with a start, sending his book flying into the table leg. The table wobbled, threatening to fall over and take Pethergrew's cup of tea with it. Toby grabbed the saucer just as the table folded up and collapsed backwards onto the grass.\
Pethergrew could have thanked Toby for saving his tea but instead he regarded him as if he were a stray dog - unwanted trouble.\
"What is it?" he said, getting up and setting the table on its feet again.\
"Toby, from the Orphanage sir."\
"I know that boy. The nuisance."\
Toby thought that wasn't very nice, or very accurate, but he ignored the insult and kept on. "It seems that Finch and his wife, and the gardener and cook have all left the orphanage."\
"Is that so?" said Pethergrew, his face twisting into something that was meant to look like surprise. He wasn't a good actor. Toby could see that Pethergrew knew everything. \
Toby decided to get to the point, "Is he coming back? Are you going to send anyone over to run the Orphanage?"\
Pethergrew took a sip of his tea. It must have been cold because his lips pursed into a tight circle and he put it back on the table with a dramatic bang.\
"The answer to the first question is 'No', Finch has found something better to do."\
"He was a Nazi all along, like I told you." said Toby.\
"Don't be impertinent boy!" barked Pethergrew.\
Toby wasn't sure what impertinent meant, but it sounded like Pethergrew was telling him to stop being cheeky. He didn't respond, just kept staring at him, waiting for an answer to his second question.\
Pethergrew could see that Toby wasn't going to be put off. Sighing, and looking like this was the least important thing in the world, he spoke. "As I am sure you are aware there is a war on. And it can't have escaped your notice that we have lost it. The Germans will be here in a matter of days and what shape our lives fall into after that is a matter of conjecture."\
"Obviously." said Toby, tersely, wanting him to get to the point.\
"We don't have anyone spare."\
"You're all busy are you?" asked Toby, \'93The whole of the Church of England can\'92t spare one person?\'94\
"We are very very busy. All of us." said Pethergrew, flicking a midge away from his face.\
"No help then?"\
"You're a clever boy Toby, you can figure out how to keep the place running for a week or so can\'92t you?"\
It seemed to Toby that the Vicar knew something was going to happen in the next couple of weeks, but he wasn't going to give anything away. \
"Of course we can manage. We can manage better than we could with Finch around!"\
Pethergrew smiled, "So what's the problem?"\
"We thought the Church was meant to look after us, Vicar."\
"Well we haven't thrown you out on the street have we? Not yet at least." Pethergrew smiled a deep and clever smile, like he had just won a game of chess. "Now run along Toby, I am sure you have plenty to do."\
And with that Pethergrew shooed him away with his hand and went back to his book.\
That was it then, the Church had abandoned them too. The one institution that had come to their aid had now thrown them away. \
His cheeks burning with anger, Toby spun on his heel and walked away. \
Pethergrew called out to him, "And you'll have to pay for your own newspapers from now on."\
Toby didn't bother replying, he just kept walking back to the Orphanage wondering how he was going to break the news. They really were on their own.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 The message\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Despite what Pethergrew said the newspapers did turn up the next morning.\
It turned out that Toby was not the only person in Britain who thought the German victory was too easy. The papers were full of articles calling for popular revolt and asking people to form unofficial militia to combat the Germans. Some had only disgust at the King's escape  while others praised him for taking the only sensible option, and pointed out that if the King was captured then Britain really would be sunk. \
Toby read reports of army units fighting on despite the surrender and of ordinary people attacking the Germans with whatever they had. There were some civilians in Essex who were blowing up bridges and parking tractors on roads to slow the German advance. Someone had even cut the power cables to several airfields that the Germans controlled.\
It was both thrilling and scary at the same time. Even more than yesterday Toby thought they should do something to the Germans, but he had no idea what.\
\
And he didn't get a chance to think about it all day. Robin, June and Toby were kept busy sorting out problems. First they needed a shopping list for things like toilet paper and new dish clothes. Then they had to make rotas for all the household tasks that needed doing, making sure they were being fair to everyone. You couldn't expect wee Mae to scrape ashes out of fireplaces and lug them out to the allotment compost pile. Finally, they had to decide how to organise the school. \
June volunteered to run it. "I'll have these kids reading and writing in no time." she said and spent the afternoon tutting and shaking her head as she read through Mrs Finch's lesson plans.\
Later on Toby and Robin looked through the house accounts, all kept in a big ledger book. Robin was sharp with figures and after an hour working out what all the numbers meant he was able to show Toby how much of the Parish's money Finch had been wasting on luxuries. Pure beeswax soap, endless mystery novels, fine writing paper, 'Dr Mogwai's Tonic' and a weekly bottle of champagne. \
"If I take out all the luxuries I can work out how much money we really need to keep this place going." said Robin, \'93Why don't you leave that to me?\'94 he added, shooing Toby away.\
Released from the accounts, Toby went to see how Phillip was getting on. \
Toby found him standing in front of the woodpile in the garden.\
\'93We need more big logs Toby, a lot more.\'94 said Phillip, slowly shaking his head. \'93It looks to me like the adults knew they were leaving and didn't bother with this.\'94\
\'93Ok,\'94 said Toby, \'93Let's go and get some more then, you and me!\'94\
Phillip nodded, and they headed off to the back shed to get the axes out. \
When they got there they discovered that the shed was locked. \
"We could chop the door down." said Phillip, excitedly.\
"What will we use to chop the door down Phillip?" said Toby.\
"Axes!"\
"And where are the axes Phil?" \
Toby watched as Phillip worked it out. \
"Oh\'85 yes, I see the problem." said Phillip, sheepishly.\
They went back to the house and searched it top to bottom looking for keys. An hour later they had a collection of scraps of paper, an old ring, fifteen Agatha Christie novels and a couple of discarded notebooks. But no keys.\
"Braithwaite must have taken them with him." said Phillip.\
They went back to the door and checked to see if they could remove the screws that held the door to the hinges, but the thing was solid.\
"Ok," said Toby "We're going to drill some holes around the lock and then saw it out. If we keep the door intact it will keep the foxes out."\
Phillip nodded, went back to the house, rattled around in the basement, and returned with the tools they needed. They took turns, but still it took ages to bore through the hardwood with the hand-drill, and then cut from hole to hole with the small keyhole saw.\
Finally, at four o'clock, they got the axes out of the shed. Phillip said he would miss dinner and go and do a firewood run by himself, but Toby insisted that he went along as well. You couldn't have children going about by themselves in the Forest, no matter how strong they were. \
Together they pulled the biggest wheel barrow out of the shed, then started the half-mile walk to Epping Forest. \
\
Once you walked along Forest Road for five minutes it wasn't long before you hit the bottom of the hill. Phillip and Toby slowly pushed the barrow up the hill, one of them on each side. They went up through the short cut where you crossed under the railway, then past the allotments until finally they crossed the last street before the forest. \
On one side of the street were houses, on the other long lush grass. Toby could see the forest stretching out for miles to the north, the many shades of green tumbling together in the afternoon sun. \
Toby turned back and looked back down the hill and past the orphanage. He could see the taller buildings of The City of London in the distance, a row of dark blocks on the horizon. Toby had had only been into The City a few times, and that was a couple of years ago now, when Mr Cage was in charge. \
Mr Cage thought the children needed to see something of London and once a year they all took the train down to Liverpool Street to visit a church or a museum. Toby remembered how busy it was down there with people pushing themselves around the children as if they weren't there. He could still hear the paper boys yelling out the news and see the smartly dressed people looking like they were going somewhere important. He'd even seen a Rolls Royce once, a monster of a thing, shiny and glinting in the light like a mirror. The drivers uniform was the smartest thing Toby had ever seen.\
This was the steepest, highest hill around and it always amazed Toby that trams came up it. He heard one now, clattering and banging its way to the top. When the trams took off back down it they looked like they might leap the tracks, or fail to stop at the busy cross roads at the bottom of the hill. But somehow they always managed to come to a halt at the red lights, the drivers looking relaxed, as if there were nothing to be worrying about. The passengers didn't even look up from their papers or stop chatting as the trams ground to a halt.\
It was late afternoon now and the light slanted into the trees from the West. The leaves were still green but soon they would turn red then orange. In a month they would fall to the ground making an ankle-deep carpet of bright yellow. \
Philip grunted and Toby turned back to their task. They turned in towards the dense trees and began their hunt for dead wood. Most houses used coal these days which was easier to light and lasted longer - and people were happy to pay the coal man to carry it out to them. But wood was free and the right to pull dead wood off common-land was ancient. The only time they used coal in the orphanage now was for baking on Sunday night. The bread needed the ovens to be hot and evenly warmed and that was easier to do with coal.\
Phillip set down the barrow, picked up an axe like it weighed nothing and pulled up his sleeves. "Right Toby," he said, "time for some real work!"\
\
An hour later, while was resting his aching arms and watching Phillip swing his axe, Toby had an idea of how he might welcome the Germans to Walthamstow. \
"Very good!" said Esme.\
Toby looked around, had she followed her brother up into the forest?\
No, there was no one else up here but Phillip and Toby. \
Was she reading his mind again? Toby said some words in his mind, 
\i Are you there Esme?
\i0  He listened carefully but all he could hear was the steady chopping of wood. He must have been imagining things.\
It took them over an hour to fill the barrow. Toby reckoned he'd only chopped a quarter of the wood and he had a new respect for Phillip's strength and his skill with the axe. Phillip looked like he could do it all again three times over, but Toby was stiff and sore. When Phillip offered to push the heavy barrow back down the hill Toby didn't put up much of a fight.\
\
By the time they got back, it was dark and dinner time was over. After stacking the wood against the wall outside the kitchen, Toby went to see if there was any bread left. He thought he might make them both a sandwich. \
Vera was in the kitchen, sitting on a high stool by the stove, stirring the pot with one hand, the other holding a book open on her lap.\
"Hi!" said Toby.\
Vera jumped, "Toby!" the book slid off her lap and onto the floor, "You scared me!"\
"Sorry," he said, and bent down to pick up her book, giving her an apologetic smile as he handed it back to her.\
"Look, we kept you some dinner." Vera banged the side of the pot with the wooden spoon, "Vegetable stew."\
"Thanks Vera, that's very kind." said Toby, though he wasn't excited about vegetable stew, again.\
"Esme said you'd be late, but next time you should tell me, otherwise I'll worry." For a moment she looked like she had said something wrong, "I mean we will all worry. We don't want to lose anyone do we?"\
"No." agreed Toby. She seemed rattled and Toby couldn't figure out why.\
Vera jumped down off the stool, ladled stew into two bowls and set them down on the big wooden table in the middle of the kitchen. She gave them spoons and a square of bread with butter.\
The stew was wonderful, much nicer than usual. "This is great Vera, what did you do to it?" asked Toby.\
"Oh," said Vera, looking embarrassed, "This and that. More herbs."\
"More care." said Phillip. \
He was right, it tasted like someone cared about it. "You're a really good cook Vera." said Toby.\
Vera blushed and turned to tidy up some cutlery that was already as tidy as it could be.\
After they had washed their dishes Toby and Phillip went their separate ways. Looking for Esme, Toby passed through each of the new common rooms. \
Children were sitting reading, playing cards, or doing homework. Despite all the uncertainty they faced no one looked scared or worried. He felt a small glow of pride - they would show Pethergrew they could cope by themselves. No, they would do better than cope, they would thrive.\
He found Esme in Finch's study, sketching on a big pad she must have found amongst his things.\
"How about this then?" she said, holding the paper up to him.\
It was a picture of exactly what he'd been thinking about for the Germans. Esme was a skillful artist and she had caught everything perfectly. The surprised faces of the soldiers, the chaos of splintered wood and people everywhere.\
"I have no idea if we can make that work." said Toby. "And it might hurt someone."\
"Yes," said Esme, "that's true, but then again it will send a mighty message won't it?"\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Chop\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280

\b0 \cf0 "What are you going to do?" \
"We've got to immobilise the tram, get rid of the driver then start it up again right?"\
Toby nodded. "Then I can drive it."\
Robin nodded. "That's the dangerous bit."\
"The dangerous bit is being seen and identified. If anyone sympathetic to the Germans sees us and dobs us in we are well and truly dead."\
Robin nodded and quickly looked away. Luckily neither of them had a moment to think about what would happen if they were caught by the Germans because they heard the sound of a tram rumbling up the tracks. After a couple of minutes grinding up the hill it came to stop right in front of them.\
There were no passengers left and the only person who got out of the tram was the driver. He was a big, round fellow who took a long time to lower himself down to the road. He waved to them and then lit a big pipe. It was a nice day, cool but still, and his pipe smoke went straight up into the air in big, rum-scented billows.\
\
Toby went and introduced himself, saying that he was doing a school project on London Transport. He asked the driver to show him how a tram worked.\
"Well," said the man, stroking his beard, looking more like a sea captain than a tram driver, "it's not allowed in the rules you know."\
"I appreciate that sir. I won't touch anything. If you show me all the levers I will stand well clear. I'd be ever so grateful." Toby gave him a winning smile.\
The driver looked out to the East. "The school project will be the last of your worries in a couple of hours son."\
Toby nodded and then bit his lip really hard, hard enough to bring a tear to his eye. "Whatever you say sir."\
The driver looked at him, saw the tear and made a huffing sound. "Come on now son, it's not that bad\'85"\
"No sir." said Toby in his most pathetic voice.\
"Are you scared?"\
Toby nodded and tried to look brave.\
The big man sighed, "Come on then, let me show you how a tram works, take your mind off things eh?"\
Toby nodded, looking pleased and grateful. As he climbed onto the tram he looked for Robin, but couldn't see him.\
Toby sat across from the driver as he showed him all the levers and buttons. There was a tiller for steering, which you only used where two lines crossed. There was a wheel that controlled the motor. There was another lever for the brakes and buttons for lights and doors opening and, of course, the bell, which the driver let Toby ring a couple of times.\
Then, after listening to the man's stories about times he'd nearly killed some crazy pedestrian, or saved someone's life, it was time for the tram to leave.\
Toby thanked the driver profusely for his help and got off the Tram, waving.\
The driver dinged the bell, released the brake and wound the accelerator wheel, expecting the tram to launch forward.\
But nothing happened. The tram stayed still.\
"Everything all right?" called Toby from the side of the road.\
"Blasted thing won't work!" called back the driver, his face flushing with frustration. \
He tried any number of combinations of buttons and levers but no matter what he did the tram remained resolutely fixed to the spot. After a few minutes he got out and did a circuit of the outside, though what he was looking for Toby couldn't say. Then the driver ducked his head and looked under the tram. \
With a shock Toby realised that that is where Robin would be. Sure enough, a moment later, Robin rolled out on the opposite side and scuttled over the road, past Toby and into the trees at the edge of the Forest.\
"That's strange." said the driver, coming back around to Toby's side, "I thought I saw something under the tram. Did you see anything? An animal?"\
"No," said Toby, shaking his head, "just me and the trees on this side sir."\
The driver grunted, then threw his hands in the air.\
"What will you do sir?"\
"I'll have to go back to the depot. I'll walk down the hill and catch a tram up Wood Street."\
Toby nodded, then watched as the driver closed the front door of the tram and locked it with a key. The he lit his pipe, waved good bye and started walking down the hill, rolling along like a nautical Santa.\
"How did you stop the tram?" asked Toby as Robin came out of the trees.\
Robin smiled, looking mightily pleased with himself, "It's a very simple system actually. The electricity travels long the wire above the road, the big arm connects the wire to the electric engine. All I did was take the arm off the wire so there was no electricity going through the system then crawled under and undid the main wire. We just reverse that to get it going again."\
"Good man!" said Toby, genuinely impressed.\
The lock on the door presented no great problems for Robin and soon they were inside. A couple of minutes after that and Robin had got the electricity hooked up again. \
"Over to you Toby." said Robin and he gave Toby a friendly slap on the shoulder before stepping back onto the pavement, "Good luck!"\
"Thanks!" said Toby, waving goodbye and half wishing that Robin could stay. But Robin needed to go down and tell Esme that the everything was ready to go. She would get the orphanage children out into the road. Then they would be ready to watch the German's make their triumphal parade down Forest road and past the Town Hall. \
Toby locked the front door of the tram behind him, then opened his canvas bag and pulled out some cricket gear - some big kneepads and batting gloves. Once he'd strapped them on, he sat on the floor of the tram, below the level of the windows so he couldn't be seen. Now he would wait until he saw the Germans.\
An hour later, just as Toby thought they might never come, he heard a distant sound, a mix of machines, grumbling and crushing. Over the next twenty minutes the sound got louder, coming up the hill like a tide, until he sound make out the sounds inside it. There were tracks squeaking and clanking onto asphalt, the revving of diesel engines and horns blasting in triumph. Looking down the hill he could see a brown haze of fumes rising above the houses on Wood St as they got closer. That was good, they were coming the right way, right into the intersection.\
Feeling sick with nerves Toby climbed into the drivers seat, trying not to snag his cricket gear on all the levers. Sitting there, looking straight down the hill, he wondered if this was such a good idea. \
Before he had time to think about chickening out the head of the German column came into view.\
It was a terrifying sight, even from this far away. Truck after truck drove along the road, their backs open, each with twenty or more soldiers on them, bristling with guns. Then there were half-track armoured personnel carriers and after that the big tanks. They were huge, bigger than anything Toby had ever seen and there must have been three hundred or more. With the dust and haze rising around them they looked like beasts of death, the image of hell itself.\uc0\u8232 The good news was they were turning right from Wood Street onto Forest Road. That should make picking his moment easier. What he wanted to do was hit a command vehicle. A tram wouldn't do much damage to a tank, but it might cut right through a truck or a command car. \
Like an axe through wood.\
Eventually the tanks all passed and the column started to thin down to ordinary transport trucks and cars. Toby took some deep breaths, closed his eyes and tried to relax. He made his mind as blank as it could be, imagining it was an empty and silent stage waiting for an actor to come on and start the show.\
After waiting for what seemed like an hour but could only have been a couple of minutes he heard Esme's voice. It was loud and clear, like she was standing right next to him.
\i \
Now Toby, now!\

\i0 Toby opened his eyes, pulled back on the brake lever and turned the accelerator wheel forward. \
\
The tram surged up to speed surprisingly quickly. By the time Toby had pulled himself clear of all the levers and got to the front door the tram was already on the crest of the hill. He looked down at the road as he stood at the open door \'96 they were going too fast. But he knew once it got on the hill proper it would be going even faster. He had to jump, the sooner the better.\
The cricket pads took some of the impact but it was still like throwing yourself at a brick wall. The shock was intense, like in one of those dreams where you think you are falling to the ground and you wake up stunned and it takes you a minute to realise you are ok. But this was real. After the initial bash of hitting the road he rolled over and over, bits of padding and body hitting the road in a jumble of painful and sharp sensations, until he came to rest by the footpath.\
Everything hurt \'96 his knees, his elbows, his bottom, his head, his shoulders, even his feet. He realised he was holding his breath, trying to keep the pain away. He took a gulp of air and braced himself against the waves of agony moving around his body. Then he tried moving his arms and legs and wiggled all his fingers and toes to make sure nothing was broken. \
Yes, everything hurt, but he was alive, and he could move. \
Without looking down to the crossroads to see what had happened, he got to his feet and staggered off the road. It was important that no one should see him. He hid behind a garden wall. He pulled the shredded remains of the cricket pads off, threw them into a bush and started to walk as best he could, trying not to bellow from the pain.\
When he got back to the orphanage Esme was waiting for him out the back. She gasped when she saw him. For the first time Toby looked down at his clothes and saw that they were blotched with the blood that had soaked through from his grazes. Esme ducked inside, made sure the coast was clear and then snuck him up the stairs to the attic. She already had a bowl of disinfectant, some iodine solution and bandages all ready to go. He gingerly pulled off his clothes and she started the long and painful job of pulling the bits of gravel out of his wounds with tweezers. \
As she worked Esme told him what had happened after he had jumped from the speeding tram. The plan had worked perfectly. By the time the Germans saw the empty tram it was too late. Some soldiers managed to jump off trucks and some managed to fire a shot or two at it, but the tram kept speeding up and rammed through the back of the column. It went straight into the back of the commander\'92s car, shattering it into splinters.\
After that all hell broke loose. Soldiers nearby filled the tram with machine gun fire, reducing the wooden frame to matchwood. Esme saw soldiers clustered around the command car, trying to pull someone out. Meanwhile the whole column came to a halt, the German's triumphant entry into London ruined. Then soldiers came up to the children and told them to leave the scene. \
Deciding that it wasn't a good idea to draw attention to themselves, Esme bustled all the children back to the Orphanage. Everyone was very excited by the crash and they wondered who had been brave enough, or stupid enough, to do it.\
Toby had to laugh, even though it hurt. Brave or stupid? That was a very good question, even he wasn't sure.\
After he was cleaned up Esme let the other Walthamstow Reds into the attic. Toby still looked pretty bad. His forearms were wrapped in bandages and his face was bruised where he had bashed it against the back of his cricket gloves.\
\'93That was amazing!\'94 said Phillip. "Does it hurt?"\
Toby smiled bravely and nodded.\
"I'll do you a poultice Toby." said Vera.\
"Thanks." said Toby, smiling as best he could, "That would be great."\
"It was really impressive." said Robin. \'93A great show all round.\'94\
Robin went on to tell them how he hid behind a low wall on Forest Road and watched for a whole hour as Germans were patched up by the medical team. A German ambulance turned up and two stretchers were pulled out of the wreckage. Robin thought they might have been dead they were lying so still. One of them had a lot of badges pinned to his tunic and a black cross around his neck where most men would wear a tie. Robin thought he must have been a general. \
Eventually another man wearing even more medals and a long black leather coat came to the scene and took control, barking out furious commands in German and pointing out into the nearby streets.\
\'93He was really mean.\'94 Said Robin, \'93He was built like brick shed. He hit people when they didn\'92t do what he wanted straight away. Then a truck drove up, full of big barking Alsatians, and I knew it was time to get out there, fast.\'94\
"Oh my goodness." said June in a hushed tone, "You might have killed someone."\
Toby felt a little sick then, and he went one shade whiter, "I know June. But there is a war on you know." \
He smiled, trying to look braver and more resolute than he felt, "and we showed them something didn't we? We showed them that we can fight back. At least a little."\
"Bravo Toby." said Esme, and she gave her brother a kiss on the forehead which he was too slow and hurt to avoid.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Free\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Even though things were tense for the Walthamstow Reds for the next couple of days no Germans came knocking at the door. They had more important things to do. The German armies had met in a giant rally in Trafalgar Square, and from there dozens of Nazi officers walked into the government buildings on Whitehall to take control.\
The next day the papers led with the story that this new territory would be known as \'91Germania\'92. June pointed out that this was a mix of Germany and Britannia and so was quite clever really. No one else thought so.\
The newspapers changed too. They might have kept the same names but there were no more reports of resistance to the Germans. The only news they printed was how great the German's were going to be for the country. That, and lots of photos of Germans standing next to the English collaborators. And lots of collaborators there were too; Actors, politicians, industrial chiefs, broadcasters.\
Over the next few days there were announcements about who would take over various public functions. The German's changed everyone at the top of every institution you could think of, from the Bank of England through to the Railways, then the head of Education. They even changed the Archbishop of Canterbury, the top man in the church, to a bishop they had in their pocket. So much for no Nazis in the church.\
Yet in the Orphanage life carried on as normal. The children were running the house and doing a very good job of it. All the autumn crops were harvested and they were drowning in root vegetables. One day Esme took the whole Orphanage on the train to Epping where they each picked pounds and pounds of blackberries. That evening they had fresh blackberry pudding, two helpings each.\
The next day the whole dining room became a jam making factory and all the children had great fun making up hundreds of jars of jam. Vera got all the young children making labels with cute drawings on them. Then she carefully wrote 'Orphan's Jam - for the children of St Mary's' using Mrs Finch's fountain pen before gluing the labels on with flour paste. The jars looked handsome standing in their rows to dry. Robin figured they could sell half of what they made and make enough money to keep them going for two months.\
Early the next morning, Robin, Vera and Phillip loaded up two barrows with jars and trundled them down to the market. Robin had already arranged to rent out a traders stall for the day for a good rate, so all they had to do was set the jars out and start selling.\
It was a huge success and after seeing how quickly they were selling Robin raised the price. This slowed sales but they still sold out by lunchtime, making them three month's worth of cash. Phillip kept all the money in a leather bag and tried to look as fierce as he could so no one would be tempted to steal it.\
After a week Toby's arms healed and he could straighten them properly without wincing. First thing he did was help Esme and Vera with their bottling marathon. They picked all the peaches and plums from their trees, cooked them with sugar and then stuffed them into sterilised jars.\
Toby and Phillip worked in the cellar too, making a false floor so that things could be hidden down there. Phillip dug out a space about four feet deep, then made a wooden frame and built the floor back on top. In there they hid all the preserves, some of their money and some big cans of water and food that would keep, like salted beef. An emergency stock, just in case.\
They were all busy and, despite the invasion, it was a happy time. Everything went along smoothly for two weeks, then three. The country was changing but nothing happened out in Walthamstow. Maybe nothing would change at all under the German's? Perhaps life might go on as it always had, just with bad newspapers and German songs on the radio.\
Then, one day just after lunch, the large brass knocker on the front door was hammered against the wood three times. It was loud enough that everyone stopped what they were doing and listened, terrified.\
Could it be the Germans? Toby and Esme looked at each other, then went to the door together and unlocked the door.\
Standing there was Pethergrew, a curious smile on his face. The smile didn't worry Toby though, what worried him was that Pethergrew was holding a cricket pad in his hand. One of the ones he had got rid of after he jumped off the tram.\
"Missing something Toby?" asked Pethergrew.\
"I'd love a cup of tea Esme." said Pethergrew, pushing past Toby and Esme uninvited, "White three sugars."\
Toby and Esme followed him down the hall and into the dining room where he stopped at the doorway and looked around. "You are doing a good job aren't you?"\
"We're trying sir." said Toby, warily.\
\'93Good boy.\'94 Pethergrew smiled at Toby, and that made him even more nervous. To cover his uncertainty he pulled out a chair for the Vicar to sit on.\
Esme ducked out to the kitchen, leaving Toby to sit with him.\
Pethergrew leaned in and gave him a wink. \'93Don\'92t worry about the cricket gear, I\'92ll keep it safe. Luckily you didn\'92t kill anyone, though they were mighty alarmed.\'94\
\'93I don\'92t know what you\'92re talking about sir.\'94\
\'93Of course not! You are one to watch.\'94 Pethergrew seemed to think the whole thing was a good joke. \'93Must say if they knew it was a boy, a scrawny little English kid, who pulled off that stunt they would be horrified. And angry. Those military types don\'92t have much of a sense of humour.\'94\
Toby shrugged, looking to the kitchen to see if the tea was coming.\
\'93Would you like to see the accounts sir?\'94 he asked.\
\'93Books?\'94 Pethergrew looked uninterested.\
\'93Robin Penn is doing them sir. He\'92s good with figures.\'94\
Pethergrew sighed, \'93Show them to me then.\'94\
Toby got up, grateful he didn\'92t have to speak for a minute. He climbed the stairs to the study, and went to pick up the heavy ledger book when he realised that his hands were shaking. Pethergrew knew he had ran a tram into the German column, but didn\'92t seem to mind. But how had he found out? Had one of the congregation seen him do it? Toby realised that whatever the answer it meant that the Vicar had a lot of power over him. If he told the Germans about it Toby could expect to be treated badly. Toby thought about his week in solitary and, while he had survived it unharmed, he didn\'92t want to spend any more time in a cell.\
He also realised there wasn\'92t anything he could about it. The best thing was to deny it and try to convince Pethergrew they were doing well. Maybe then he would leave them alone.\
By the time Toby got down stairs Esme had put a cup of tea in front of Pethergrew. Beside it was two rounds of toast down too, lavishly spread with their home made jam.\
\'93Delicious!\'94 said the Vicar, spitting crumbs over the table and not bothering to apologise. \'93This is excellent jam Esme, excellent!\'94\
\'93We\'92ll get you some for your wife.\'94 said Esme, smiling broadly. Too broadly, Toby could tell she didn\'92t trust him either.\
They waited while Pethergrew slowly chewed through the toast and slurped his tea as he casually flicked through the ledger book in front of him. From time to time he muttered "Very good very good."\
\'93Well...\'94 he said, wiping his jammy fingers on the table cloth, \'93You must be wondering why I am here.\'94\
Toby\'92s stomach lurched with dread - was he about to be exposed?\
Esme spoke to cover Toby\'92s silence, \'93Yes sir, it must be about more than jam?\'94\
\'93Ha!\'94 Pethergrew laughed, \'93Yes, indeed it is.\'94\
He leaned right forward and spoke in a low whisper, \'93It\'92s about the Germans and what they want to do with you.\'94\
\'93Do with us?\'94 said Esme, \'93Why would they want to do anything with us?\'94\
Pethergrew sat back in his chair, looking pleased with himself, as if he was enjoying their discomfort. \'93The Germans, yes. They want to do things to Walthamstow. They came to see me.\'94 Pethergrew puffed his chest out in the way that people who feel important by association do, \'93They have big plans.\'94\
\'93What plans?\'94 said Esme, her voice saturated with anxiety.\
\'93I told them they could do what they like, they won the war didn\'92t they!\'94 Pethergrew continued , ignoring Esme\'92s question.\
Toby spoke up, cutting across Pethergrew, \'93What plans sir?\'94\
Pethergew didn\'92t like being interrupted. His face went pink around the cheeks and his finger worked at his collar, trying to let in some air as he continued, loud and aggressive. \'93Big plans, is that good enough for you? Well is it?\'94\
Toby nodded, reminding himself not to be cheeky. \'93Yes sir.\'94\
\'93Good!\'94 Pethergrew took a breath and blew into the air like a steam train letting off pressure, \'93And I have a choice to give you.\'94\
\'93Yes?\'94 said Toby, not able to look at Pethergrew or his sister for all the tension he was feeling in his tummy.\
\'93You can stay here, in the orphanage, or you can leave.\'94\
\'93But,\'94 said Toby, \'93We don\'92t have anywhere to go to. This is our home.\'94\
Pethergrew shook his head, \'93It was your home, but the German\'92s own it now.\'94\
\'93What?!\'94 said Esme, \'93How!\'94\
\'93The Church made a bargain. We keep the churches and the Vicarages and the Germans get everything else. Schools, hospitals, orphanages.\'94\
\'93All the useful things.\'94 muttered Toby.\
\'93No!\'94 snapped Pethergrew, slapping his hand on the table, \'93We kept all the houses of worship, that's the main thing.\'94\
Toby couldn't help himself, \'93I bet the Germans don\'92t see it that way!\'94 he blurted out.\
Pethergrew had moved through pink and was not a deep shade of purple. He was shouting at Toby now, \'93We retained the right to worship. What would England be like without the right to practice Christianity?\
That was a big question. While Toby could see that going to church was important he did think it was more important to look after the young, the sick and the unfortunate. But he clamped his jaw shut and said nothing. A quick look at Esme confirmed that she thought the same.\
\'93So,\'94 she said, \'93The Germans own the Orphanage?\'94\
\'93Yes.\'94 Said Pethergrew, calming himself, \'93But only in title. They won\'92t do anything of course, they\'92re not going to barge in here and start putting little German orphans in your place.\'94 he smiled at the thought,\
\'93Though of course they would be within their rights.\'94\
Esme, usually so calm, was now visibly furious, her mouth twisted like a wrung cloth, \'93What are we meant to do now then?\'94\
Pethergrew took a sip of tea and put the cup down slowly, like he were giving someone advice they might not want to hear. \'93This is what I am trying to tell you, you can go, you are free.\'94 And he smiled, as if this was a great idea.\
\'93Free?\'94 said Toby, \'93We have each other to look after, we have young children who are relying on us.\'94 Toby said the word \'91us\'92 in a way that made it clear he was including Pethergrew. \'93We can\'92t just leave them, what would they do?\'94\
Pethergrew shrugged, \'93I have no idea.\'94\
\'93Well it\'92s not really much of a choice then is it?\'94 said Toby.\
\'93I suppose not.\'94 said Pethergrew with more than a hint of enjoyment.\
Toby stood up, pushing the bench noisily back with his legs, \'93If this place is owned by the Germans now then you have no right to be here do you?\'94\
Pethergrew looked startled for a moment before he regained his composure. \'93No, you\'92re right about that.\'94\
\'93So we would like you to leave now please.\'94\
Pethergrew looked at Toby and clapped, \'93Very good, very good young man. You are a clever thing.\'94\
\'93Out! Now!\'94 growled Toby.\
\'93Or what, you\'92ll set your sister on me?\'94 Pethergrew sneered.\
\'93Phillip!\'94 said Toby, hoping that he would be nearby, drawn to the conversation. In fact Toby was sure that everyone in the orphange was listening to them now.\
\'93Yes Toby?\'94 Phillip walked into the room.\
Pethergrew looked at him and turned pale. Whether he had done it deliberately or not Phillip wore a white apron streaked with red, and his hands were red too, crossed with blood. In his right hand he carried a long curved blade. He must have been slaughtering one of the chickens for the Sunday roast.\
Toby looked Pethergrew in the eye. \'93See this man out will you Phillip?\'94\
Phillip started to walk forward, but Pethergrew darted in front of them all, scooped up the jar of jam and was at the front door in seconds.\
Toby chased him, and, as the Vicar was about to leave, got ready to slam the door in his face. But Pethegrew turned, his distorted with hatred, his voice low and mean, \'93You are a pest Toby, a real pest, but don\'92t worry you can stay here as long as you like, it won\'92t do you or your fellow vermin any good, rats can\'92t leave a sinking ship you know, not without drowning.\'94 And with that he stalked off up the main road, back towards the church, laughing at his own joke.\
Toby returned to the dining room where all children had gathered, Pethergrew\'92s words ringing in his ears.\

\i Rats can\'92t leave a sinking ship, not without drowning
\i0 .\
He didn't know what that meant, but it wasn't good, and he thought it would be better to keep those words to himself. Which meant he had to think of something to say now that everyone was looking at him.\
\'93Good news!\'94 he said, trying to sound upbeat and happy, \'93The Orphanage is ours! Ours to keep!\'94\
Only Esme failed to cheer the news, but only she knew why it was theirs.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 The Wall\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Toby was counting out vegetables and writing the numbers down in Vera\'92s produce book. She needed to know so she could plan the winter menus.\
Outside he could see Phillip finishing piling the wood stack. It was taller than it had ever been. They had enough wood to keep the many fireplaces in the house going for months now.\
Phillip was planning to fix up some of the beds and furniture over the winter. June said he should be using winter to learn to write better, but Phillip quietly ignored her. He knew that his talents with his hands were as good and useful as hers with her language and books.\
June was upstairs now, running the other children through their paces on mathematics.\
Toby had promised June that he would go up for lessons when he had finished counting vegetables. Now that he had finished he didn't have a reason to stay out of class anymore. He would have to go up, it was only fair.\
He sighed and poured himself a glass of water, crushing a leaf of mint into it to make it tasty, and took it out to the dining room for a moment of quiet. As long a moment as he could justify before going upstairs and stepping into the class room.\
He didn\'92t like it much up there, it seemed that there was always chalk dust hanging in the air and getting into your eyes.\
Down here in the dining room it was relaxing. The weak afternoon sun washed through the windows and over the new tablecloths Vera made from some old curtains. They were bright and cheery, a mix of stripes and flower prints in bold colours. Each table had a vase on it and Vera would go around before dinner and place a single stem in each one. With the new tablecloths and the flowers the food seemed to shine and glitter in the candle light, like every meal was a Christmas feast. Things were so much better without the Finch's.\
He sighed. He still didn't want to go upstairs. If he was being honest with himself it was because Esme was up there. Every time he saw her she gave him a stern and disapproving look, reminding him that he had lied about the ownership of the orphanage.\
Toby had tried to talk to her about it but she had changed the subject, or claimed to be too busy to talk. What was he supposed to do? Tell everyone they didn\'92t have a safe home anymore? He just wanted everyone to be happy.\
And what would the Germans want with the orphanage anyway? With any luck they wouldn\'92t even notice they had it. There must be hundreds of orphanages in England, and they had so much else to do running a whole new country, why should they care about this one? They wouldn't. Esme was blowing things out of proportion.\
Just as he was about to get up and go to the classroom he heard the front door slam, the glass rattling in the frame. Who was that?\
Robin burst into the dining room, frantically looking around for people. \'93So there you are!\'94 he said, as if Toby had been hiding from him.\
Toby was about to tell him off when he realised Robin was scared. His eyes were flaring with alarm and his face was red and blotchy. Robin was never scared - something must be horribly wrong.\
\'93Down at the market... tanks... trucks... they\'92ve come Toby, they\'92ve come back...\'94\
Robin pulled at Toby\'92s shirt, trying to make him go with him, but Toby refused to budge. Instead he sat Robin down and gave him the glass of water. After a few gulps Robin started to settle down. He tried to speak a few times but nothing came out.\
Toby was worried now. What could be so bad that it would make Robin speechless? \'93Please tell me Rob, put me out of my misery won\'92t you...\'94\
Rob shook his head, \'93You need to see it.\'94\
Before he knew what was happening he heard a voice in his head. \
It was Esme.\
What\'92s wrong Toby?\
Don\'92t know, Robin wants to show me something\
OK. Stay safe\
Will do, bye\
Toby blinked. He\'92d just had a whole conversation with Esme, as if she were standing right next to him.\
\'93You alright Toby?\'94 said Robin, looking at him strangely.\
\'93Yes.\'94 said Toby, shaking himself, \'93let\'92s go then.\'94\
Ten minutes later they were standing in the market looking at a strange sight. A brick wall was being built from one side of the main street to the other. It was only four foot high at the moment, but there were a dozen brick layers working on it and by the end of the day it might reach eight foot or more.\
\'93What are they up to?\'94 asked Toby, baffled.\
\'93Go and ask them.\'94 said Robin, pointing to the workmen.\
Toby walked forward, right to the wall and asked the closest worker, a gruff looking man the shape of a barrel, \'93What are you doing?\'94\
\'93Building a ruddy wall, what\'92s it look like?\'94 The man didn\'92t even stop to look at Toby, he just kept putting on brick after brick, as quick as he could.\
\'93I\'92ve got that,\'94 said Toby, trying not to get impatient, \'93but why?\'94\
\'93Why?!\'94 said the man, finally stopping and looking at Toby, \'93Because there\'92s a man behind me pointing a gun at me, that\'92s why! Now push off!\'94\
Toby was startled by the mans aggression and stepped back. Then he looked past the wall and saw a small German staff car, like the one he'd put the tram through. Next to it stood two soldiers wearing long grey coats, each with a snub-nosed machine gun slung around their shoulder. It was hard to see their faces beneath the deep shadows cast by the rims on their steel helmets, but they didn\'92t look happy. Toby turned and walked back to Robin.\
\'93Are there any more?\'94 Toby asked.\
Robin\'92s bony shoulders lifted up around his ears, \'93I dunno Toby, I just saw this and thought you ought to know.\'94\
Toby nodded. \'93Let\'92s find out shall we?\'94\
Robin nodded and they turned to the left and started to walk away from the market.\
It was easy to see where the wall was going. You only had to look for the piles of bricks and rubble that had been dropped in the middle of streets to see that.\
"Can you see what they're doing?" said Robin.\
"Building a load of walls?" said Toby, trying not to sound cranky.\
"No no." said Robin, "It's really clever. If you think of a terrace of houses as a wall, then all you have to do is brick off the end of the street to create an enclosure."\
Silently they followed the piles in a broad sweep that took them up towards their Church, then over to Shernall St where the piles stopped. They doubled back to the market, then walked the other way, following the bricks back up towards Forest Road.\
As they walked up to the Town Hall they saw a whole convoy of German trucks that had appeared from nowhere around the back of the allotment. This was the only place where Walthamstow was open to the countryside. It would take an age to build a wall across there, but the Germans must have figured that out. They had another solution in the trucks, Toby was sure of it.\
In the hour that they had been walking around people were stepping out of their houses and looking quizzically at the heaps of bricks on the ends of their streets. You could see them working it out as they strolled around, chattering to each other.\
The Germans were building walls in a circle to make an enclosure.\
Toby suddenly realised the full horror of what was happening. "They're building a wall. A wall right around Walthamstow."\
Robin nodded back. "There's only two reasons to build a wall Toby." he whispered.\
Toby nodded, "To protect things inside it."\
"Or to keep them inside, by force."\
There wasn\'92t any doubt in Toby\'92s mind which of those it would be.\
The Germans were turning Walthamstow into a prison.\
The question on Toby's mind was whether the orphanage was going to be on the inside or the outside of that wall.\
Was that what Pethergrew had been talking about? Were they going to be prisoners? And if so, was it all his fault?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280

\fs44 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\fs22 \cf0 \page \pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\fs44 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440

\f1 \cf0 Part 3 \'96 Stalag E17\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 The quiet\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Toby made Robin promise to say nothing about the wall that was being put up around Walthamstow. He didn\'92t see any point in alarming the other children just yet, at least not until they knew whether they would be inside the wall or not.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 But when they got back to the Orphanage Esme was waiting for them, her arms crossed, looking worried.\
\'93What?\'94 said Toby.\
\'93You know.\'94 said Esme, looking at him sternly.\
\'93I forgot to put the lid down on the toilet again?\'94\
Toby\'92s effort to make a joke didn\'92t work, Esme looked stern.\
\'93Have you been reading my mind again?\'94 asked Toby, annoyed.\
Esme glanced at Robin who looked confused. She put her next question to him. \'93What\'92s going on Robin?\'94\
Robin looked at Toby, who sighed and nodded, if Esme had been rummaging around in his head she knew everything anyway.\
After dinner they told the other Walthamstow Reds what was going on. Phillip, Vera and June went out to see the wall for themselves. They came back looking scared, but they couldn\'92t tell if the wall was going to trap them or not either.\
They didn\'92t have to wait long for an answer.\
The next morning they were all woken at six o\'92clock by a heavy rumbling sound. They rushed to the window to see what was happening. \
Six huge trucks followed by a bulldozer and a staff car pulled up on Forest Road, right by the orphanage. \
The trucks were driven by English workmen, but there was no question who was in charge. Half a dozen German soldiers tumbled out of the back of the truck, followed by an officer in a peaked cap. The soldiers stood around for a minute lighting cigarettes, joking and stomping their feet against the morning cold while the officer read something from a notebook. When he had finished reading the officer looked up and pointed right at the orphanage.\
\'93Finch.\'94 said Vera.\
\'93What?\'94 exclaimed Toby, \'93That\'92s impossible.\'94\
\'93Look at the officer, look closely.\'94 said Vera.\
June gasped, \'93She\'92s right, that\'92s him.\'94\
Toby felt himself flush with fear as he recognised Finch. His body went icy cold and he had to clamp his teeth tight so they didn\'92t chatter. \'93Well we know what side of the wall were on now.\'94 he whispered. \'93If Finch is organising the whole thing then he\'92s not letting us go free is he?\'94\
No one disagreed with him, not even to make him feel better. This was serious.\
\'93We could make a run for it.\'94 said Robin. \'93We could be out of here in ten minutes if we wanted.\'94\
\'93Too late.\'94 said Phillip, pointing at the road again.\
Two of the soldiers had broken off and were standing by the orphanage gate, looking up at the window, their guns resting in the crook of their arms, ready for action.\
Toby looked down at Finch. He was directing the drivers where to go. He must have felt Toby\'92s eyes on him though, as he suddenly turned and looked up to the window.\
It was definitely Finch. The same narrow, mean face, the same sneer. \
Finch smiled though, when he saw Toby, smiled and waved, like they were old friends. \
Toby felt ill to the pit of his stomach. He stumbled away from the window and had to hold onto a chair to stop himself losing his balance.\
Finch was taking his revenge. \
And everything really was Toby\'92s fault.\
By the end of the day an endless stream of trucks had dropped tons of gravel and old junk into massive piles that were then pushed into a barrier right across Forest Road. One end of the barrier was pushed up against the college and the other against the back wall of the orphanage. Right behind the orphanage workmen hastily built a tower out of steel scaffolding wood and put a platform at the top. A watchtower.\uc0\u8232 \
It was impossible to keep anything from the other children in the orphanage and over lunch Toby told them everything. The other children were shocked, but no one panicked. \
After Toy had finished, Esme stood up and spoke too, \'93We can\'92t let them stop us, so we are going to go about our business as normal. I will be taking a group out to the allotment as usual this afternoon. If anyone doesn\'92t want to go, that\'92s fine\'92 just raise your hand.\'94\
No one put up their hand and five minutes later the afternoon the gardening team, led by Esme, walked out of the gate and went off to the allotment. The soldiers didn\'92t challenge them. Toby wondered if he had walked out of the orphanage if things might have been different. Even though Finch had disappeared at lunchtime Toby knew that the guards would know who he was, and they would have paid him special attention if he has done anything unusual.\
After two days of constant noise, of trucks driving up and down the street and the diesel-belching bulldozers scraping rubble into piles, the wall and the watch tower were complete. \
The soldiers, who had been stationed outside the orphanage all night and all day, left with the final workmen, leaving suddenly alone.\
As night fell the search light mounted on the watch tower flicked on, shining right down into the orphanage with an intense white light. It was so bright that looking at it made your eyes hurt. \
Vera quickly sewed up some extra thick curtains to keep the bright light out of the dorms on that side of the building. It still felt like an evil beast, a huge wolf, was sitting outside the walls, waiting for a child to stray, waiting for dinner.\
The next day was properly cold and they were all wearing a couple of jumpers, their biggest wool coats and scarves. The six of them stood at the gate looking out onto street where the guards had been yesterday.\
Something was wrong.\
\'93It\'92s really quiet.\'94 said June.\
\'93Obviously!\'94 whispered Robin.\
\'93Something\'92s about to happen.\'94 whispered Esme. \
Toby snorted. Did she could she could see into the future as well now?\
\'93Lets take a look then.\'94 said Phillip, pushing open the gate.\
After three days stuck inside the orphanage Toby was itching for some exercise and, before he let himself think about how dangerous it might be, he walked through the gate and into the street.\
The others quickly followed and soon all of them were walking the familiar route up over Church Hill and back down towards the market. \
Toby pulled his scarf down off his ears hoping to hear some noise, but it made no difference, it was still deathly quiet.\
\'93Where is everyone?\'94 he asked.\
Esme replied, \'93There will be someone down the market, there always is.\'94 but Toby could tell she trying to be cheerful. She was as spooked as he was.\
When they got to the market they saw upturned barrows, fruit on the ground beginning to rot and stray dogs nosing through rubbish bins. What they didn\'92t see was people. There was no one around.\
Toby turned to one side and marched torwards towards the Library. It was past nine o\'92clock on a Tuesday, the Library would be open, it always was. Old Mr Treacher would be there scowling at the kids, examining their choices of books and tutting them if it wasn\'92t Dickens, Shakespeare or some other long-dead writer. Toby liked annuals, books on cars and planes and Treacher would sigh as if Toby was a lost cause when he piled them on the counter. Only the girls ever got books out he approved of. Esme got out books on gardens and nature, Vera chose \'91Proper Literature\'92 as Treacher put it and June got out textbooks meant for adults. Treacher\'92s eyebrows would fly up in alarm, like an owl\'92s wings, as he put a stamp on the slip in the back of yet another book on trigonometry or astronomy.\
Toby pushed through the doors and on to the issues desk. Sure enough there was Treacher\'92s tea cup on the counter. It looked like he had just stepped out to make another pot. But as the others joined him he reached out and touched the cup. It was cold. He realised that Treacher wasn\'92t going to return. The library was empty too.\
\'93We can get out any book we like.\'94 joked Robin, \'93Even adult romances.\'94\
No one laughed. \
No one moved.\
\'93This can\'92t all be for us.\'94 said Toby. \'93The whole Prison can\'92t just be for us, that doesn\'92t make sense. It\'92s too much work.\'94\
As they stood there without anything to say the silence grew around them until it seemed like a thick fog. Toby, feeling that he might not be able to breathe soon, unbuttoned his coat. \'93Lets break into pairs and take a few streets each. We\'92ll meet back in the orphanage in an hour.\'94\
No one else had a better plan, so they broke off. Vera seemed keen to go with Toby, Phillip went with June and Esme went with Robin.\
Toby and Vera took the north route back to the orphanage. As they walked through street after street of houses they didn\'92t see a single person. Every now and then Toby would see a light on in a house and knock on the door, hoping that someone would answer and be able to tell them what happened. But no one ever came. The lights had been left on by accident, because people were in a rush to leave.\
Vera kept talking most of the time, rambling on about nothing much. Toby guessed it was to fill the awful silence. He might have said something more to Vera but he also had Esme\'92s voice in his head, just two words endlessly repeated.\

\i No one
\i0 .\
By the time they all gathered again at the orphange there was no doubt that they were the only people left inside the wall around Walthamstow. \
\'93Why us?\'94 said June. \'93Why have we been left?\'94\
\'93We\'92ve been put in solitary.\'94 said Phillip.\
\'93No.\'94 said Toby, \'93Something else is going to happen, I can feel it.\'94\
\'93I can feel it?!\'94 scoffed Robin. \'93That\'92s just silliness.\'94\
Toby shrugged. He looked at Esme who was giving him her \'91I told you so\'92 look.\
\'93Toby is right.\'94 Vera moved to his side, \'93Something will happen, and soon.\'94 \
Toby was glad of her support, but wished she wouldn\'92t stand so close to him. \
\'93They could have just locked us inside the orphanage and let us rot.\'94 said Toby, \'93But they\'92ve gone to all this trouble. I think Finch found a way to punish us, yes, but that is a bonus. I think don\'92t think we are the main show.\'94\
June nodded, \'93It\'92s pointless to go and build a prison and then leave it empty.\'94 she said.\
\'93So what are they going to put in it?\'94 asked Robin.\
\'93Not what,\'94 said Esme, \'93but who.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Velvet and silk\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 The next morning Esme headed off to the allotment with her gardening detail as usual while Vera set about in the kitchen and Phillip tidied the house. June went upstairs and started classes leaving Toby and Robin to their own devices.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 The two boys sat together and went through the accounts book, Robin showing Toby all the money in and out of the orphanage, how much they had made from the sales of vegetables and jam down at the market. Once again Toby was impressed with Robin\'92s head for business.\
When they had finished Robin sat staring at the account book for a while in thought and then slammed his hand down on it, making Toby jump.\
\'93That\'92s it!\'94 shouted Robin.\
\'93What\'92s what?\'94 said Toby, recovering as best he could.\
Robin stood up and started darting around the dining room, barely able to keep himself still he was so excited. \'93We can stock up!\'94\
\'93Stock up on what?\'94 said Toby, getting exasperated.\
\'93Everything!\'94 said Robin, punching the air.\
\'93Sit down and tell me then.\'94\
\'93No.\'94 said Robin, \'93Outside, lets get outside - now!\'94\
Robin dragged Toby out onto the street.\
\'93What do you see?\'94 said Robin pointing up the road.\
\'93Houses.\'94 said Toby, still baffled.\
\'93Houses with nobody in them. Shops with nobody in them.\'94\
Suddenly Toby knew what Robin was so excited about. \'93But\'85\'94 he began, \'93But we can\'92t just go into people\'92s houses and take things!\'94\
\'93Can\'92t we?\'94 said Robin, \'93Why on earth not?\'94\
\'93It\'92s against the law.\'94 Said Toby, crossing his arms.\
\'93And whose law is that?\'94 said Robin, looking at Toby with a wicked grin on his face.\
\'93The germans.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93Exactly.\'94\
Toby was confused. One the one hand there didn\'92t seem to be any harm in taking things off germans, but on the other it didn\'92t seem right to take things off the people who had just been made to leave.\
Robin pushed into his thoughts, \'93Everyone will have taken anything really precious with them, like jewellery or money, right?\'94\
\'93Maybe.\'94 said Toby, not sure he liked where this was going.\
\'93Anything that\'92s left isn\'92t any good to them now is it? But we could all do with some new clothes and as many candles and jars and tools as we could find - well couldn\'92t we?\'94\
\'93We could use a lot of that kind of thing, yes.\'94 Toby couldn\'92t disagree with Robin on that.\
\'93And maybe some heavy tools. For the day we break out of here.\'94\
Robin was smiling now and Toby found it impossible not to smile back. What was wrong with getting some free equipment that no one else was using and making it work for them?\
\'93Well\'85\'94 said Toby, feeling his resolve weakening.\
\'93Lets go out, just for a look.\'94 said Robin heading for the door. Toby found himself walking out behind him, out the door, out the gate and onto the street.\
Instinctively Robin led Toby up to the biggest houses on Church Hill, the houses where the families with servants used to live. They would have the best tools and clothes.\
Five minutes later they were standing outside the grandest house checking to see if anyone was looking. No, the coast was clear.\
Robin clicked open the side gate and walked around the back of the house, Toby following, his heart racing. There might be no one around but it still felt a dangerous and wrong to be prowling around the back of someone\'92s house in broad daylight.\
Robin opened the unlocked door of the garden shed and looked inside. A good axe, almost new gardening tools, ropes, nails, screws and hammers. \'93And even something to take it all home in.\'94 said Robin, pointing to a wheelbarrow upended in a corner.\
\'93Not to mention all the plants out there.\'94 said Toby, looking at the garden beds. \'93They\'92ve even got some bulbs in there, some tulips by the look.\'94\
\'93Come on.\'94 Robin led Toby up to the back door, producing a few wires from his pocket. Toby had forgotten that Robin had got them into Finch\'92s office with his lock-picking skills.\
In a minute Robin was pushing the door open and stepping inside. \
As they made their way through the house Toby\'92s eyes were on stalks. There was so much stuff that the family had left behind. The kitchen was pull of pots and pans, the rooms still had furniture in them and there were some really great things in there. A wind-up gramophone and dozens of records. Coal buckets and shovels, games like Scrabble and a Monopoly set, decks of cards and tons of books. \
Robin was cackling to himself as he went around, and when he opened the wardrobe in the master bedroom he started laughing. Turning round Toby saw that Robin had a black top hat on, an old fashioned one, straight and high like a stove pipe. It was very funny.\
Toby pushed into the racks of clothes in the wardrobe, feeling the silks and good wool clothes on his skin. He\'92d never felt things as smooth, it felt like he was washing his hands in warm water as he touched them.\
\'93Try this on.\'94 said Robin, holding up a black wool coat.\
As Toby shrugged it on he knew it was way too big, but almost instantly he felt really warm. Warm for the first time in ages.\
A moment later and the coat was on the floor.\
\'93What\'92s the matter Toby?\'94 asked Robin.\
\'93It just feels wrong, that\'92s all. This is someone else\'92s coat.\'94\
Robin looked disappointed, shook his head, then had an idea. \'93Tell you what,\'94 he said, \'93why don\'92t we talk to the others about this, see what they think?\'94\
It was the first time that Toby had seen Robin worry about what anyone else thought.\
\'93Good idea.\'94 said Toby. \'93All this stuff isn\'92t going anywhere is it?\'94\
\'93Let\'92s hope not.\'94 said Robin. \
The only one of the Walthamstow Reds who thought they should take everything they could get their hands on was June. She saw it as a golden opportunity to stock up and didn\'92t see that people might come back for their possessions one day, that they might be cross or sad.\
Everyone else could see the good sense in it, but, like Toby, also felt bad about it. They wouldn\'92t like people rummaging around the orphanage helping themselves to things.\
\'93We could set some rules.\'94 said Toby, trying to figure out what would be fair. \'93We could pick a couple of houses, like the one Robin and I visited, and clear them out, or we could make up a big list of everything we needed and just take one or two things from a lot of houses.\'94\
In the end they agreed it was fairer to clear out the houses of one or two rich people.\
And so, after lunch, they wheeled their wheelbarrows up the drive to the big house that Toby and Robin had visited earlier.\
Robin and Toby let the others in and showed them around. \
Like Toby had before, the others just wandered round the house looking at all the nice things in disbelief. Then, after they had come back to their senses, they started to clear things that would be useful. \
Vera was most excited about the thick velvet curtains and stripped them all off the windows, then took all the tablecloths and towels and washing up equipment. Esme dug up a good electric sewing machine. Phillip took all the clothes, first laying them out in colourful piles, like fresh flowers, then wheeling them back down to the orphanage in the barrow. Vera said that with the sewing machine she could alter coats and jackets to fit all the children.\
Robin kept the top hat, which made him look like a circus master, and then ferreted around taking out all the tools and cleaning fluids, buckets, soaps and anything else that looked useful.\
Toby started ferrying things down to the orphanage. It took ten minutes to get there and back and he kept it up for hours. At the other end a mighty pile of things was forming in the dining room of the orphanage, much to the amazement of the other children. Like him they had never seen nice china plates or fine soap before. \
There was only one thing that Toby really wanted, and even then it felt naughty to want it. But the last trip he did that day had the wind-up gramophone in it, that and all the records he could find.\
All the children in the orphanage spent the rest of that night finding places to put things. \
Vera got some children to put the thick curtains over as many windows as she could, and double up the old ones. The whole orphanage felt warmer and the fires seemed hotter and more welcoming.\
After a tasty dinner of thick chicken broth and rye bread Toby went up to the stage at the end of the dining room. What he did surprised everyone. He said a prayer.\
He wasn\'92t sure himself that he was going to do it, it just came out. And now that they were free of the church, free of the church\'92s view of god, then why not make up their own?\
\'93Our Father who is in heaven, thank you for the goods that you have provided us today, they will help us make it through the winter, keep us warmer and healthier. And thank you too for this record-player, for tonight we will dance and enjoy ourselves, because we should enjoy life while we can.\'94\
\'93Amen.\'94 All the children echoed around the dining room. \
\'93Come on then Vera,\'94 said Toby, \'93you know about these things, come and choose a record.\'94\
Vera, delighted, skipped up on the stage, gave Toby a big smile, and started to look through the records. As Toby wound the gramophone Phillip got all the children in the orphanage to push back the tables and chairs.\
Five minutes later Vera was teaching them all an old dance called the Charleston and the children were shrieking with delight as they shook and flapped their arms and legs in time to the music. \
They danced for hours, right until the little ones were falling asleep on their feet.\
After settling everyone for bed the Walthamstow Reds made a pot of fancy tea from the house on The Drive and sagged with a happy exhaustion. It had been a big day, and despite the uncertain future, they had all enjoyed every last minute of it.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 The children\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Esme\'92s voice jumped into Toby\'92s head with a sharp ungency. 
\i They\'92re coming!
\i0  \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280

\i \cf0 Who are?
\i0  Asked Toby back.\

\i Children. Children like us.\
Where?\
Hoe Street.\
Shall we come down?\
There are lots of soldiers too, and trucks, it\'92s very busy.
\i0  said Esme, 
\i Keep our children safe, send Robin out.
\i0 \
Robin? Toby wanted to go himself, but he could see that Esme had a point. Robin wasn\'92t any good with the smaller children, he\'92d just scare them.\
Toby put up his hand, \'93Excuse me Miss?\'94 he said to June, who was trying to explain how you calculated the volume of a cylinder to the advanced math class.\
\'93What is it Toby?\'94 said June, annoyed at being interrupted.\
\'93Robin needs to be excused.\'94\
June looked backwards and forwards from Toby to Robin, looking stern.\
\'93Are you sure?\'94 she asked. \'93Really sure? Math is important!\'94\
\'93Sorry Miss, yes I am.\'94\
June sighed. \'93As long as he catches up with his work\'85\'94\
\'93Thanks Miss!\'94 said Robin, relieved to have an excuse to get out of class.\
In the hallway outside the classroom Toby quietly told Robin what he needed to do. Robin nodded then bounced down the stairs and out the front door.\
Toby sat back at his desk and looked at the blackboard. It was hard to concentrate and when June asked a question he couldn\'92t answer it, instead he stuttered and stalled until June looked over his head and asked a much younger girl, Madeline, who knew the answer straight away.\
It was the middle of the afternoon before Esme and Robin came back. Toby had been asking Esme in his mind what was happening but she had either couldn\'92t hear him or was ignoring him, so he was totally in the dark.\
\'93Well?!\'94 he said, as soon as they got in the front door.\
\'93You won\'92t believe it!\'94 said Robin.\
\'93Cup of tea please Toby.\'94 said Esme, interrupting. Toby was about to tell her off for stalling, but he could see she was really tired.\
\'93Coming right up your majesty.\'94 Toby muttered as went off to the kitchen to boil the kettle.\
\'93Children.\'94 said Esme, sipping from the cup. \'93Loads and loads of children, on trucks with suitcases and trunks. How many Robin?\'94\
\'93Maybe a thousand.\'94\
Esme nodded, \'93Maybe even more.\'94\
\'93English kids?\'94\
\'93Yes, English kids.\'94 \
Toby felt elated. \'93That\'92s brilliant then, more children!\'94\
Robin and Esme exchanged a look. For some reason they didn\'92t think it was good news.\
\'93English children.\'94 repeated Esme, \'93but not like us.\'94\
\'93All English children are like us.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93Thing is, \'93 said Robin, \'93as far as we could tell they\'92re posh.\'94\
\'93Very very posh.\'94 said Esme.\
\'93How could you tell?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93Wearing frock coats and toppers,\'94 replied Robin, \'93and some of them carrying canes and everything. Like they was already at University.\'94\
\'93How old?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93Probably ten to sixteen, plenty of them around our age.\'94\
\'93We can\'92t judge them just because they are posh can we?\'94 asked Toby. He\'92d never met a kid who wore a frockcoat and carried a cane, let alone one who would go to University.\
\'93I guess not.\'94 said Robin, whose tone indicated that all posh kids must be bad.\
\'93It\'92s really odd isn\'92t it?\'94 said Esme.\
\'93What\'92s that?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93Posh children aren\'92t the usual kind of people you put in prison are they?\'94\
Toby shook his head. \
\'93So how do we find out why they\'92re here?\'94 asked Robin.\
\'93That\'92s easy,\'94 said Esme, \'93we just ask them.\'94\
\'93When?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93How about right now!\'94 she answered.\
Ten minutes later and the three of them were back in the street, walking over towards Hoe Street. It wasn\'92t long before they saw a dozen children walking along the road, being marshalled by a couple of German soldiers. Toby, Esme and Robin stopped a little way away and watched.\
The children wore fine clothes, the boys in properly cut suits with smart overcoats and shiny shoes and the girls in tailored dresses, with coats that matched their gloves and hats. They carried leather suitcases that glowed in the late afternoon light like chestnuts. They all looked amazing, like advertisements, but they were not happy. Even from a distance Toby could see them looking nervously about themselves and he could hear sobbing. These children were scared.\
The soldiers talked to one another in German, looked in a book, pointed at the front door of a house and then pushed three of the boys forward. One of them, the oldest by the look of it, strode to the door, pushed it open and went in, the other two following. A moment later and the door closed.\
After lighting a cigarette each the soldiers started to walk on, pushing the remaining children in front of them, like they were herding sheep.\
Toby waited until the soldiers were gone and set off towards the house the boys had just gone into. He had to knock loudly on the door a couple of times before it opened a crack and sliver of light fell onto the face of the older looking boy\
Close up Toby could see he was about Toby\'92s age. He had smooth pale skin and blue eyes that were rimmed red - the boy had been crying. Toby felt a surge of pity for him.\
\'93Hello.\'94 Toby said, and then, because he couldn\'92t think of anything else to say, \'93My name is Toby.\'94\
\'93Were not supposed to let anyone in.\'94 the boy said, so quietly Toby had to strain to hear him.\
\'93That\'92s all right,\'94 said Toby, trying to sound as reassuring as possible, \'93I can just stand here if you like.\'94\
\'93Are you from around here?\'94 the boy asked.\
\'93I live in the orphanage, just down the street, with my sister Esme here and fifty other children.\'94 \
The boy kept looking at him, like he was trying to make sure that Toby was real. After looking carefully at Robin and Esme he waved all three of them in.\
Inside the house was freezing. The boy showed them past the suitcases dumped in the hallway and into the kitchen where the other two boys sat looking as miserable.\
\'93I\'92m Miles.\'94 said the boy who had shown them in, \'93This is Algernon and Charles.\'94\
Esme couldn\'92t help herself from laughing. \'93Algernon?!\'94 she spluttered.\
\'93Esme!\'94 spat Toby, \'93Manners!\'94\
\'93Sorry.\'94 she said.\
The boy named Algernon, who was a couple of years younger than them and pale as milk, said \'93I know, it\'92s a horrible name and I am having a horrible life and I wish I were dead. Dead or back at home with Mater and Pater and not stuck in this hole of Hades.\'94 \
Algernon spoke very fast and looked around himself a lot, making Toby think of a nervous rabbit.\
Robin looked around them and shrugged, \'93Don\'92t look too bad from where I\'92m standing. You get a room each to sleep in don\'92t you?\'94\
Miles nodded. \'93A very small one by the look of it, yes.\'94\
\'93And as for missing your parents all I can say is be glad you got them, \'91cause none of us do.\'94\
At this Algernon and Charles looked shocked. \'93No parents?\'94 said Charles who was chubby and red faced. \
\'93I wish I didn\'92t have parents.\'94 said Miles, \'93then we wouldn\'92t be in this mess.\'94\
\'93Why is that?\'94 asked Toby.\
Before anyone could answer Esme broke in. \'93Toby, shouldn\'92t we be getting the fire going and get a cup of tea on for these poor boys?\'94\
Toby looked confused.\
\'93They\'92ve probably never had to light a fire before.\'94 she said.\
Algernon shook his head, \'93Goodness no! Me, light a fire, never!\'94\
The boy had obviously been spoilt rotten, imagine not knowing how to light a fire.\
Then Miles said something close to what Toby felt anyway, \'93Good God Algernon, that\'92s not going to do. What\'92s past is past. You\'92re here now and you\'92re going to have to chip in and do your bit, do you understand?\'94\
Miles had gotten over his teariness and now, standing straight and telling Algernon what was what Toby could see that he was probably a very nice boy, despite the posh accent.\
Algernon shrugged and looked away. \

\i Spoilt Brat
\i0  thought Toby.\

\i Very spoilt brat
\i0  thought Esme.\
They looked at each other and almost burst out laughing.\
\'93Well then!\'94 said Miles smiling, \'93I confess that I am as useless as a snowflake in summer. Show me how to light the stove and make a cup of tea.\'94\
It took them an hour to get coal up from the cellar, clean out the range, find the tea caddy, make a fire and get a kettle boiled. Miles insisted on helping at every stage, which slowed them down, but his curiosity was charming. As long as Toby didn\'92t look at Esme - who was constantly on the verge of laughing - he could keep a straight face. \
Charles had not bothered to learn about the fire either, but he had dug around and found an \'91acceptable\'92 set of china cups and a \'91barely good enough\'92 tea pot, and laid them out on a Sunday best tablecloth. Algernon, despite not lifting finger to help, had insisted on sugar. Everyone ignored him so he had been forced to look in the cupboards himself and eventually, after much muttering, he had produced a pack of sugar cubes.\
Eventually there were six cups of steaming hot tea on the table. \
After Miles had taken a few sips he started to tell Toby, Esme and Robin how they had come to be there.\
\'93The germans came knocking on the front door this morning. They had a list. My name was on it but my brother and sister weren\'92t. They gave me five minutes to get clothes and kept mother and father away from me the whole time, pointing guns at them. It was awful.\
\'93They piled me in a truck with others boys and girls and kept driving around Kensington, knocking on doors and pulling children out of houses, one by one, for hours.\
\'93We were frightened. No one would tell us what was going on. There are plenty of us who speak German of course, I myself was doing it at summer school last year, but even when we asked them in German they just ignored us. Or slapped us.\'94\
For a moment Mile\'92s face clouded over. He had obviously been the one who had got slapped.\
Charles took over the story, \'93When they were picking me out one of the soldiers muttered the word \'91insurance\'92 to my mother, who was weeping and wailing and asking why.\'94\
\'93Insurance?\'94 asked Toby, \'93Against what?\'94\
\'93Against resistance, against causing trouble.\'94 said Charles.\
Miles spoke again, \'93We figured it out. None of our parents are collaborators and they all hold positions of power and authority.\'94\
\'93My father is head of the Tax Department.\'94 said Algernon, importantly.\
\'93Mine is the head of currency at the Bank of England\'94 said Charles.\
\'93And mine is the editor of The Times.\'94 Miles said, \'93By taking one of their children the Germans are making sure that our parents will do what they are told.\'93\
Toby had another word in his head, and it wasn\'92t \'91insurance\'92. \'93Hostages.\'94 he said.\
\'93Yes, exactly right.\'94 said Miles nodding, \'93Hostages.\'94\
No one said anything for a minute as that sunk in. Toby had finished his tea and put the cup down on its saucer.\
\'93What are you doing for dinner?\'94 asked Esme, out of the blue. \'93You could come back to the orphanage if you like.\'94\
Robin cut across her, \'93We can\'92t feed a thousand children Esme, don\'92t be daft.\'94\
Algernon spoke then, his voice brittle and angry, \'93We don\'92t need your help, if that\'92s what you\'92re thinking.\'94\
Miles turned to the younger boy, \'93Don\'92t be a prig Algie, they\'92ve taken time out of their day to talk to us and show us how to get on.\'94\
\'93The germans will look after us good enough. If they don\'92t they lose don\'92t they?\'94 said Algernon.\
\'93How do you make that out?\'94 asked Charles.\
\'93You can\'92t use a dead child as a hostage can you?\'94 said Algernon.\
Robin laughed at that, \'93He has a good point there. Dead is useless.\'94\
\'93No one is going to die!\'94 said Miles, firmly.\
Turning to Toby he said, \'93The Germans said they are going to feed us, three times a day, down in the Town Hall, is that far away?\'94\
Toby shook his head. \'93Five minute\'92s walk\'94.\
\'93Good.\'94 said Miles. \'93Now, I think we have tried your patience enough. We\'92ll be fine, really we will.\'94 And with that Miles lead them towards the door.\
\'93We\'92ll come and see you tomorrow.\'94 said Esme, \'93To make sure you\'92re settling in all right.\'94\
\'93That would be most looked forward to!\'94 said Miles, lighting up with pleasure like a christmas tree.\
When they got outside Robin didn\'92t take a minute to start teasing Esme, \'93You\'92ve gone all starry eyed.\'94 he said.\
\'93What are you talking about?\'94 she replied.\
\'93Posh boy. He likes you.\'94\
\'93No he does not!\'94 said Esme, pushing Robin a little too hard.\
Robin shrugged and started cackling to himself as he led the way back to the orphanage.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Beevor's boys\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 The Walthamstow Reds went back to see Miles, Algernon and Charles after lunch the next day, but they weren\'92t home.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 \'93They must be down at the Town Hall, for lunch.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93Shall we go and see?\'94 asked June.\
Phillip nodded, \'93We might be able to join in, get another lunch.\'94\
\'93No.\'94 said Toby, \'93Not if Finch is there, he\'92ll recognise us.\'94\
\'93We\'92ve got nothing to lose.\'94 said Vera. \'93If they throw us out at least we\'92ll know where we stand.\'94\
Toby sighed and looked at the rest of them, aware that everyone but him wanted to go and have a look.\
\'93OK.\'94 he said, \'93Let\'92s get it over with then.\'94\
\
They all walked together down the hill, taking a short cut that came out onto Forest Road right in front of the Town Hall.\
Toby took one look at the building and stopped in his tracks. \
Hanging from the front of the building were three crimson banners, each with a white circle and a black swastika punching through it. It was just like the dream he\'92d had.\
The others had stopped and were staring too, mouths open in shock. It was a horrible sight, and the more they looked the worse it got. \
Parked around the sides of the town hall were a dozen trucks also emblazoned with swastikas. Standing at the entrance were dozens of soldiers, smoking and chatting, a few of them with guns trained on the front door. \
There were dogs too, six of them on long leads, prowling and snapping at each others tails. At key points around the buildings platforms had been built and on them machine guns and spot lights mounted. Men sat hunched in them, looking somehow both bored and dangerous at the same time.\
Toby knew he had a choice now. What he felt like doing was turning around, running back to the orphanage and slamming the door behind him. What he wanted to do was make this ugliness go away. But another part of him knew that this was the new reality and that he had to adjust, if not for his sake then for all the others in the orphanage.\
\'93Come on then.\'94 muttered Toby. \'93We can\'92t stay scared.\'94\
He starting walking forward, and the others started to walk with him.\
Soon they were walking through the gates and down the driveway towards the assembly hall.\
\'93Hey you!\'94 A big soldier shouted at them in heavily-accented english and waved his gun at them. \'93Get inside, you\'92re late!\
They didn\'92t need telling twice, and they scampered through the front door and into the hall.\
It was rammed full of children. Some were already sat at long tables, eating from white crockery plates while others were still queuing to get food. \
They joined the back of a queue. After a minute shuffling they passed a stack of plates and, picking up one each, they slowly shuffled towards a serving hatch.\
Toby passed the time by looking at the children in the hall. There were boys and girls as young as seven or eight right up to children who were a foot taller than Toby, children who must have been near fifteen. They were all very well dressed, and all together they looked like hundreds of perfect little adults, and like adults they were quiet. There were a couple of children talking in very low whispers but there was none of the rowdy talk that you would expect with this many children in one place. Either they were all so well bred that they didn\'92t talk at table, or they were so scared they couldn\'92t speak. Either way it made Toby sad to think of the children having no life in them.\

\i Too quiet
\i0  he said in his mind to Esme. She nodded.\
Toby held out his plate and a serving of lamb stew was carefully ladled onto his plate. Looking up at the woman at the serving hatch he saw that she was kind looking and not that old, maybe in her twenties. Toby wondered how she had got this job, whether she had wanted it or was made to take it.\
\'93Thank you.\'94 he said with a smile.\
\'93You\'92re welcome.\'94 She spoke in a proper East-end accent. A local then.\
That was good news, it wasn\'92t all Germans. The guards would be German, and the people running it would either be Germans or collaborators. Toby wondered if the serving hatch lady was a collaborator. He looked back at her as he made his way to a table with some empty seats. She didn\'92t look like a collaborator, she didn\'92t look twisted and mean in the way that Finch did, but then it was hard to tell what a person was like by the way they looked.\
Sitting with the others trying to eat his lunch, Toby talked to them in a very low whisper. \
\'93This is a really big operation. Feeding a thousand kids a day is a big deal.\'94\
\'93They\'92d have to bring all the vegetables and meat in from somewhere else, it\'92s not local.\'94 said Vera. \'93And there would be tons of it.\'94\
\'93It\'92s not bad either.\'94 said Robin, who was the only one who had managed to make a dent in his meal.\
\'93It\'92s very good quality.\'94 agreed Vera.\
\'93What are they going to do with themselves?\'94 asked Phillip, waving his fork around the room at the children.\
\'93The Germans will make them do something.\'94 said Robin, \'93They\'92re not going to let this much labour sit around doing nothing are they?\'94\
\'93But there\'92s nothing for them to do.\'94 said Vera.\
Toby agreed, \'93There aren\'92t any factories inside the prison, and not many allotments, not enough to feed everyone.\'94\
\'93Are we meant to come down here everyday too?\'94 asked June.\
\'93It\'92s like they\'92ve forgotten about us.\'94 said Phillip, pushing his plate towards Robin, who grabbed it and started spooning stew into his mouth.\
\'93I don\'92t think they\'92ve forgotten about us at all.\'94 said Toby.\
Toby found himself scanning the room for Finch. Instead he saw Miles sitting at a table with some other older boys. The kind of boys who looked like they thought they should be running the show. \
Toby was about to go over and say hello, but something about the boys made him uneasy. He waited for a moment to catch Miles eye and then gave him a small wave. Miles gave him a wink back, but didn\'92t wave him over. For some reason Miles was keeping Toby away from that table.\
Toby didn\'92t like the idea of being kept away. This was where he lived, Walthamstow was his patch. They should be wanting to meet him, to find out about Walthamstow through someone who lived there.\
He looked as Esme. She shrugged.\
Toby got up and strode over to Miles\'92 table and stood at the head of it, looking down at the eight or so boys who sat there. Miles looked at Toby, like they had never met. The other boys stopped eating and looked up at him too. A couple sniggered, a couple more stared at with open hostility. Only one boy kept dipping his spoon into his soup and slurping.\
\'93Hello. I\'92m Toby Tunstall.\'94 he said.\
The table remained silent. All the boys seemed to be waiting for the boy who was still slurping soup to say something.\
There was nothing for Toby to do but continue. \'93I thought I should introduce myself as I am one of the children who live in the orphanage. I know the area very well and I thought we might be able to help.\'94 He had started strongly, but by the end of his short speech he had begun to falter.\
\'93Help?!\'94 said the soup boy, his voice high and pinched, \'93How would you help?\'94\
\'93Like I said, I know the area, where the allotments are, sources of water, that kind of thing.\'94\
Soup boy finally looked up at Toby, his narrow slit eyes regarding him like he was a bit of dirt. \'93We\'92re not farmers you know.\'94 he said, scornfully, as if farming was the worst thing in the world.\
Toby was determined not to let this horrible boy get to him. \'93What\'92s your name?\'94 he asked.\
\'93Beevor.\'94 said the boy, dipping back into his soup.\
\'93Do you have a first name?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93Not really.\'94 he said, finally putting down his spoon, \'93I find I don\'92t need one, most people seem to remember me well enough.\'94\
Toby didn\'92t doubt it. This boy was memorable, and not in a good way.\
Before he could think of anything else to say Beevor put up his hand and waved Toby lazily off, \'93Thank you for your introduction, we shall be sure to let you know if we have any questions about pigs.\'94 Beevor laughed then, a tight scrawl of noise in the air. \
The other boys, as if on cue, joined in. The only one not laughing was Miles, who at least had the decency to look uncomfortable and sat staring at the table.\
Toby decided he had seen enough, turned on his heel and walked back to his table.\
\'93This could be brilliant.\'94 said June as they were walking back to the orphanage. \'93Nice food twice a day without having to cook and slave in the garden. Who knows, they might even start a school.\'94\
\'93It wouldn\'92t be half as good as yours.\'94 said Toby. \
\'93If you think it\'92s so great Toby, why do you do everything to skip maths?\'94 teased Vera.\
\'93I\'92ve got other things to do.\'94 he said.\
Vera slapped him on the arm, \'93Think you\'92re better than us do you?\'94\
\'93No!\'94 he blustered. \'93It\'92s just\'85 I got us into this mess, it\'92s my job to get us out.\'94\
Robin laughed. \'93Is that what you think? You really are as stupid as you look Toby.\'94\
Toby, suddenly angry, turned on Robin, \'93Yes, that\'92s what I think. And no, I am not stupid!\'94\
The two boys stood facing each other, tense and unsure what to do next.\
\'93I\'92m stupid.\'94 said Philip. \'93That\'92s a fact!\'94\
\'93No you\'92re not!\'94 said June. \'93I would give anything to be as strong and clever with things as you.\'94\
Phillip looked genuinely surprised at June\'92s confession. \'93June, I\'85\'94\
\'93Don\'92t worry,\'94 said June, \'93You don\'92t have to say anything smart back, that\'92s Robin\'92s trick.\'94\
\'93That\'92s not fair!\'94 said Robin, but Toby could tell Robin felt secretly pleased at June\'92s jab.\
Vera spoke then, looking Toby right in the eye, \'93What Robin was trying to say is that none of this is just your fault.\'94\
\'93I\'92m the one who stirred up Finch.\'94\
\'93We all hated Finch.\'94 said Esme.\
\'93And I\'92m the one who drove a tram into the Germans and made Pethergrew and Finch want to punish us.\'94\
\'93We wanted you to hurt the Germans.\'94 said June, earnestly.\
Robin laughed, \'93That was a cracking day, absolutely magic!\'94\
The others all started to laugh, remembering the bravery of it and the chaos it caused. \
\'93You don\'92t need to feel bad Toby.\'94 said Vera, \'93We\'92re all in this together, like we said.\'94\
Toby nodded and smiled, grateful to Vera for supporting him.\
Vera continued, \'93We\'92re not in immediate danger. There\'92s lots of strange things going on, but if Finch was going to do anything worse he probably would have done it by now.\'94\
\'93You\'92re right.\'94 said Toby. \
He wasn\'92t sure of that, but there was no point in making everyone else feels nervous as he was.\
\'93What we should do is just keep doing what he have been doing.\'94 said Esme. \'93That was working well enough. We\'92ll keep gardening, chopping wood and running our own school until someone makes us do something different.\'94\
Robin nodded. \'93We\'92ve got it good here. Better than a lot of people.\'94\
Philip looked at Toby and then back to the others. \'93I think Toby has something on his mind.\'94\
\'93Trouble.\'94 said June, disapprovingly.\
\'93No.\'94 said Toby, \'93Not yet at least. Let\'92s see what we can do with what we have here. We need to learn more first before we can continue with the plan.\'94\
All the others looked at in surprise. \
\'93What plan?!\'94 said Robin.\
\'93The plan to get the Germans out of England of course.\'94 said Toby.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 That kind of a boy\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Toby usually sprinted out of June\'92s maths class and onto the next thing without looking back, but today he needed something from her. He sat there after everyone else had left, waiting for her to look up from her book and notice him. That took five minutes.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 \'93Toby! What are you still doing here?\'94 she exclaimed.\
\'93I wanted to see you.\'94 he said, \'93I want your help. And your advice.\'94\
\'93You never want my advice.\'94 She scowled at him, \'93This is a trick isn\'92t it?\'94\
\'93No!\'94 said Toby, laughing, \'93Really, I want your help.\'94\
She looked at him suspiciously. \'93What is it then?\'94\
An hour later and they had a plan of action. \
June would do the notation and the writing down, and the other Walthamstow Reds would do the work. June reckoned it would take them a week to get everything done, and she promised to draw up a rota showing activities and times.\
Toby swore her to secrecy and then left the house.\
Toby walked straight up to Miles\'92 house on Howard Road and knocked on the door. \
\'93I thought it might be you.\'94 said Miles as he opened the door, \'93why don\'92t you come in?\'94\
Toby followed him into the kitchen and sat at the table while he put the kettle on the stove.\
\'93You\'92ve got the gas on then.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93They switched it on last night. Don\'92t you have it?\'94\
Toby shook his head, \'93The orphanage runs on wood and coal. We were never important enough to get the gas.\'94\
\'93You\'92ll be telling me that you don\'92t have electricity next.\'94\
Toby laughed, \'93No, we have that. But candles are cheaper.\'94\
Miles looked at him sideways as he scooped far too much tea into the pot, \'93You know you don\'92t have to pay for electricity now don\'92t you?\'94\
Toby shrugged, \'93I guess not. We used to pay at the office on Orford street.\'94\
\'93The Germans are damned efficient.\'94 said Miles, quickly adding, \'93Not that I want them here, just to be clear about that old chap.\'94\
Toby nodded.\
\'93My parents certainly don\'92t want them here. They hate them. I suspect I will begin to hate them soon, but for different reasons.\'94\
\'93What do you mean?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93My parents are intellectuals, do you know what that means?\'94\
\'93Not really.\'94 admitted Toby.\
\'93It means they value ideas above all else.\'94 Miles sighed, \'93We could have gone to Canada you know, we had the chance, but my parents wanted to stay. To see it through.\'94\
\'93They were brave.\'94 said Toby,\
\'93Or stupid, depending on how you look at it.\'94\
\'93And you, why will you hate the Germans?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93Because they are our jailers, but they are playing a very clever trick. Carrot and Stick you see.\'94\
Toby shook his head he didn\'92t know what Miles was saying.\
\'93The food they put on is better than many restaurants.\'94\
\'93I\'92ve never been to a restaurant.\'94 said Toby.\
Miles looked at him in surprise. \'93You\'92ve never eaten out! Next you\'92ll be telling me you\'92ve never been south of The Thames!\'94\
Miles clearly meant it as a joke, but it was true, none of the Walthamstow Reds had been ever south of The Thames.\
\'93Ah.\'94 said Miles, seeing the embarrassed look on Toby\'92s face. \'93Well it\'92s like this. The Germans will make us as comfortable as they can, they will seduce us with fine food and no doubt soon we\'92ll have tennis tournaments and cinema in the Hall, like the whole thing is a holiday camp. That\'92s the carrot. But also they won\'92t tolerate any bad behaviour. That\'92s the stick. They will look after us very well and they will also be very harsh, just you wait and see.\'94\
Toby had come to see Miles with the intention of telling him off for not standing up for him when he went over to his table, but now he was here he realised how much he enjoyed Miles\'92 company. \
Miles poured the hot water into the teapot and rotated it three times clock-wise, just as Esme always did.\
\'93Will the others join us?\'94 asked Toby, secretly hoping that they wouldn\'92t.\
\'93I don\'92t expect so. Algernon has taken to his bed and Charles will be reading. He hates to be interrupted.\'94\
\'93Why is Algie in bed?\'94\
\'93Well he won\'92t admit it, but the poor boy is desperately homesick.\'94\
\'93Oh.\'94 said Toby, \'93He could come and stay with us if he wants.\'94\
\'93What good would that do?\'94 asked Miles.\
\'93The orphanage\'85 it\'92s very homey now. And there\'92s tons of good company. He\'92d have to work of course, but he would be welcome to stay for a few days, to cheer himself up.\'94\
\'93That\'92s very generous.\'94 said Miles, pouring the tea. \'93I\'92ll tell him.\'94\
Miles sipped the tea and grimaced. \
\'93I think it\'92s teaspoons you wanted, not tablespoons.\'94 said Toby, trying not to laugh.\
Miles nodded, tipped half the tea out of each of their cups and topped them up with water before sitting back down.\
\'93I expect you\'92ve come to give me a ticking off, but I can explain.\'94 said Mile, pausing to sip his tea, \'93That table I sit at will be \'91top table\'92, do you know what that means?\'94\
Toby nodded.\
\'93Those are the chaps who will run the place. And you know we could be here for years. Many years.\'94 Miles eye\'92s clouded over with sadness for a second before he continued, \'93And at the moment I get to sit at that table because of who my father is.\'94 \
Toby nodded, \'93But why were they so mean to me?\'94\
\'93That\'92s Beevor mostly. Who know who he is don\'92t you?\'94\
Toby shook his head.\
\'93His father is the Prime Minister.\'94\
\'93But Basham left.\'94\
\'93He did, and now Beevor\'92s father, who used to be deputy Prime Minister, is now in charge.\'94\
\'93Still doesn\'92t explain why he was so horrible to me.\'94\
\'93First off he is a horrible boy. A real bully.\'94 said Miles, sipping on his tea. \'93Oh\'94, he said, \'93I forgot something\'85\'94\
Miles jumped to his feet and pulled a cake tin off a shelf, sprung the lid and put it on the table.\
Chocolate biscuits.\
\'93Help yourself.\'94 said Miles, \'93They give us tons of this kind of thing.\'94\
Toby was amazed. \'93Do you think we could get some? Our children only have home baking.\'94\
\'93Take the tin home with you.\'94 said Miles, \'93though you\'92d better leave a couple for Charles, or he will sulk.\'94\
\'93So Beevor\'92s a bully, and he expects to be top boy, is that it?\'94\
\'93Yes,\'94 said Miles, \'93that\'92s half of it. The other half is that those type of children don\'92t expect a boy like you to just walk up to them and say hello, it\'92s makes them nervous.\'94\
\'93What kind of boy am I?\'94 said Toby, baffled.\
\'93Working class. An orphan without a family. They expect people like you to be wandering around with soot on your faces and bowing and scraping like Oliver Twist.\'94\
\'93Oh.\'94 said Toby. He was shocked. He\'92d never thought of himself as being \'91a kind of boy\'92. All of the orphanage children had just thought of themselves as unlucky children who had to make the best of things.\
\'93Sorry.\'94 said Miles. \'93That came out a little rough.\'94\
Toby shook his head. He helped himself to a second chocolate biscuit to make himself feel better. \'93But we all want the same thing, why should it matter who our parents are? Or aren\'92t?\'94\
\'93It shouldn\'92t matter.\'94 said Miles, \'93But to those boys it does. They were born into privilege and they expect to keep it.\'94\
\'93You\'92re one of them, and you\'92re nice.\'94 said Toby.\
Miles laughed. \'93I wasn\'92t born a toff, but my Father sent me to all the right schools.\'94\
\'93Which is why you didn\'92t defend me at lunch the other day. You\'92d be out then.\'94\
Miles nodded slowly. \'93Sorry about that.\'94\
\'93It\'92s all right. Now I understand why.\'94 said Toby. \'93But tell me, why do you want to be close to them anyway?\'94\
\'93I know how those chaps work and how they think and one day I might be able to do something useful for everyone else, but only if I sit with them.\'94 Miles glanced at Toby before continuing. \'93It was something my father always used to say, \'91Keep your friends close and your enemies closer.\'92\'94\
Toby was confused, \'93But they\'92re not your enemies.\'94\
\'93Not yet.\'94 said Miles, \'93But you never know what is going to happen. Things could change in an instant. Which is why you must be careful.\'94\
Toby felt that Miles was sounding him out about something and that they had reached an important moment. So far Toby hadn\'92t let on that the Walthamstow Reds weren\'92t just sitting around growing vegetables, that they had a larger plan of action, and so far Miles hadn\'92t said anything his plans either. And Toby could see that Miles was a boy who was always thinking ahead.\
\'93Careful of what?\'94 said Toby, as casually as he could.\
\'93Be very careful about what you say out loud.\'94 Miles said, \'93Because you never know who is who and where their allegiance lies.\'94\
\'93Collaborators.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93And spies.\'94 said Miles. \'93Some of those boys will be on the Germans side. Even if they don\'92t want to be. Already there\'92s some men going round, pretending to be clergy, asking all the children about their families and things they might want. They\'92re setting the children up for blackmail, creating a network of spies who will tell on us.\'94\
\'93Pethergrew and Finch.\'94 said Toby under his breath.\
\'93Finch. Yes, that\'92s one of them.\'94 said Miles.\
\'93In which case we have to very very careful.\'94 said Toby. \
\'93We?\'94 said Miles, looking at Toby very seriously.\
\'93I meant everyone. Everyone has to careful.\'94 said Toby, returning Miles\'92 stare. \
Toby thought they both understood each other, that they were both against the Germans, but neither of them was going to say anything out loud. Not yet at least.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 A speech\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 \'93What I\'92m saying is that are on the pig\'92s back here.\'94 said Robin. \'93We\'92ve still got the allotment, no german has noticed us let alone say \'91boo\'92, we have three meals a day, chocolate biscuits and a free cinema. If that\'92s prison, I don\'92t mind so much!\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 The Walthamstow Reds were sitting in the kitchen garden, enjoying the first faint rays of summer sun. \
\'93Haven\'92t you noticed the machine gun towers?\'94 said Vera pointing to the spiky watch tower jutting up behind the back wall of the orphanage, \'93More every week. Do they make you feel good?\'94\
\'93Of course not.\'94 said Robin. \'93But you can\'92t deny that our situation has improved under the Germans.\'94\
\'93We are prisoners.\'94 said June, \'93Just because the prison has chocolate biscuits doesn\'92t mean it\'92s any less a prison.\'94\
Robin shrugged his shoulder, \'93We\'92re not taking advantage of things as they stand.\'94\
\'93What do you mean?\'94 asked Toby, who always took Robin seriously.\
\'93Maybe some of the children would be better off in houses now, not jammed into dorms.\'94 said Robin, \'93And maybe they should be going to the prison schools with the other kids.\'94\
\'93No they should not!\'94 said June, standing up and pointing at Robin, \'93Our school is the best in London!\'94\
\'93How do you know that?\'94 said Robin, \'93I mean you\'92re probably right, but how do you know? None of us have been to the prison schools. These toffs have good schools don\'92t they?\'94\
Vera was agitated, squirming in her chair, \'93They\'92re German schools!\'94 \
\'93I know that!\'94 said Robin, frustration written all over his face.\
Toby held his hands up to stop them all talking. \
\'93This is meant to be a meeting where we can say anything that comes to mind.\'94 he said. \'93A meeting where we look at what\'92s happening around us and figure out a way to work with it, in order to reach our end goal\'85\'94\
Robin couldn\'92t help himself interrupting, \'93That\'92s an empty dream Toby. We\'92re not going to get the Germans out of here, not us. What can we really do? Are we going to throw turnips at them?\'94\
Vera looked sternly at Robin and then turned to Toby, expecting him to say something to shut Robin up.\
But Toby knew Robin had a point. If you thought about it logically then resistance did seem hopeless. And they had been inside the prison for three weeks now and nothing bad had happened. Their lives had got easier. \
Toby knew Robin was clever, as clever as Miles in his own way. Was Toby being short-sighted himself?\
\'93Maybe Robin has a point.\'94 said Toby.\
Vera looked furious, \'93What?!\'94 she stammered out.\
\'93Things are changing. We do need to take advantage of the situation. If there are things we can gain easily then we should do them.\'94\
\'93Like going to a German school!?\'94 whispered June, as if Toby were suggesting they take lessons from Herr Speer himself.\
\'93Wouldn\'92t it be useful if some of us knew some German?\'94 said Toby, with a twinkle in his eye. \'93Wouldn\'92t it be useful to get to know some teachers and guards?\'94\
Phillip smiled. \'93Know your enemy!\'94 he said.\
\'93I see.\'94 said Esme, nodding. \'93Good idea.\'94\
Robin raised his hands into the air. \'93There you go with your crazy idea again!\'94 He stood up, \'93I hate to tell this to you Toby but you\'92re not going to be the one who gets the germans out. None of us is.\'94\
Robin\'92s words hung in the air. The others hung their heads and didn\'92t look at him.\
\'93I\'92m going out for a walk.\'94 Robyn said and then stalked out before anyone could stop him.\
\'93That boy!\'94 muttered Vera.\
\'93That boy is sharp as a knife.\'94 said Esme. \'93But he bends easily. Sometimes you have to hold to something that could be impossible, despite all the proof that says you\'92re being crazy.\'94\
\'93Things change. People change.\'94 said Toby, \'93We can\'92t force anyone to stay here, to believe what we do. If Robin, or anyone else, wants to leave the orphanage then they can do that. Whenever they like.\'94\
After lunch Toby took the others and went down to the Town Hall to see what was happening. Esme went off by herself, to see if she could find Robin. \
After school had finished most of the children in the prison came down to the concert hall, sat around the long tables and waited for dinner at six. Some played cards or board games, the older children read newspapers or books, but mostly they did what children did all over the world, sit around and joke and talk.\
Beevor always sat at top table with his bunch of toff cronies gathered around him. Miles was there today too. Toby never even looked at him in public now, and accepted that he needed to sit away from that group. Instead he sat with Esme and some girls. \
There weren\'92t that many girls in the prison, about one hundred all together, but Esme and Vera liked to sit with them and talk about things. The toff girls seemed to like Vera and Esme and were interested in the way that Vera had altered and made her dresses and listened when Esme talked about gardening.\
Toby sat quietly, keeping an eye on what Beevor was doing. There was something important going on at top table. Beevor was talking at great length and the others were listening, nodding and looking enthusiastic. After a while Beevor stopped and motioned Miles over to him. Miles got out a pencil and pencil and together they started writing. Toby was aching to know what it was.\
After another half hour of work Beevor looked pleased and slapped Miles on the back. Miles chanced a look at Toby and gave him a wink. What was he up to?\
Beevor stood up, clutching his piece of paper to him, and moved towards the stage at the end of the Hall. As he made his way up the stairs everyone in the hall fell silent. Even the half a dozen armed guards standing at the door stopped talking and watched Beevor as he cleared his throat and placed his piece of paper on the lectern in front of him.\
\'93Good day everyone. My name is Beevor, you may have heard of my father, Reginald. He is helping the Germans run the country at the moment.\'94 \
He paused then and looked around the Hall before continuing. \'94Many of you are in a similar position to me. Your parents are assisting the Germans and we are here to provide a guarantee of their good conduct.\
\'93We have to accept the simple fact that we are now subject to German law. But what he do not have to accept is that we, as a body, will remain powerless over our own fate.\
\'93My father has been talking to the Germans about our situation, and he has got them to grant us a certain degree of freedom if we agree not to cause trouble. \
\'93I think you will agree with me that we have a good enough life here and that we are more fortunate than many. Good food, good company and a reason to live. \
\'93Sadly we may never see a time when England is ruled again by the English, but we must remember that England had been invaded before. I am thinking of the Norman conquest in 1066 and then the Vikings taking most of East England many hundreds of years ago. These once foreign cultures now make up the rich tapestry that weaves together to become the English character. I have no doubt that, within two generations, we will feel the same about the germans.\'94\
Beevor looked pleased with himself at this point. Toby didn\'92t know if what Beevor was saying about previous invasions was true, but it sounded like Beevor was making an excuse to make peace with the Germans, just like his father.\
\'93And so,\'94 continued Beevor, his voice rising in volume and commanding the hall, \'93I call upon you all to co-operate with the germans. If we do so they will let us have our own democracy, our own parliament. It can only be a shadow of the great hall in Westminster, but never the less it is an indication that they wish us peace. Peace and good will.\'94\
Now it was clear to Toby what was going on. The germans would give Beevor a parliament, but only if it didn\'92t do anything against them. Beevor had made a deal with them.\
Beevor continued, \'93The German\'92s have given us permission to hold an election. We will chose a leader and a cabinet of six children who will organise and govern where needed.\'94\
Beevor looked very pleased with himself. It was obvious that he thought that he would be elected as Prime Minister.\
At that moment Toby heard something. A loud, sharp bang. Catching his breath he looked up to see where it came from, but no one else seemed to notice it. It was followed by a cry - a boy crying out in pain. \

\i Algernon!
\i0  said Esme loudly in his head, 
\i Algie, he\'92s been\'85 Oh my God Toby\'85
\i0 \
All at once Toby knew what had happened. Without thinking he stood up on his bench and stepped onto his table. \
Everyone turned to look at Toby. Beevor had to stop speaking because no one was paying him attention. Toby could see the anger in Beevor\'92s eyes, the fury of being interrupted. Toby didn\'92t care, what he had to say was much more important.\
\'93Algenon Carter has been shot and killed by the German guards.\'94\
There was a moment of utter silence as everyone in the hall took that in. Then a blast of many sounds - children screaming, guards yelling at children to be quiet, then Beevor shouting at everyone in an effort to make them listen to him.\
\'93No!\'94 shouted Beevor, \'93No! This is not true, he is trying to cause trouble, that\'92s all. Please everyone, listen to me!\'94 \
But no one was listening to Beevor, they were all staring at Toby in disbelief. \
Then Beevor realised something. He pointed at Toby and raised his voice, \'93How would he know? He was here with us and nobody else knows anything!\'94 he barked.\
Some children looked at Toby then. How had he heard the news? Was it even true? A few children started to laugh and point at Toby, like he was mad. He suddenly felt very stupid, and very alone.\
A moment later Robin burst through the front doors of the hall, ran between the guards and into the centre of the hall. \'93They shot him. Dead. Algie.\'94 said Robin, his voice carrying clearly around the hall. There was no mistaking the shock and horror in his voice. \'93I saw it\'85 I saw\'85\'94 but Robin couldn\'92t finish. He dropped his head and started to cry.\
Now everyone was looking from Robin to Toby, asking themselves - How had he known?\
Toby got down off the table and, followed by the Walthamstow Reds, scooped up Robin and made his way out of the hall as quickly as he could. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Algenon\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 It took Robin ages to tell them what had happened. His teeth chattered with shock, even after Vera had made him drink two cups of the thickest and sweetest hot chocolate she could make.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 They were sitting in the lounge room, a fire roaring in the grate, Robin swathed in blankets and sitting between Toby and Esme on the big sofa. \
Miles was there too, quiet and intent on what Robin said. He had come to the orphanage as soon as he could without arousing suspicion. \
\'93Esme has just caught up with me to ask if I was ok. And I was fine, I was, I just wanted some time alone.\'94 Robin looked at Esme and she patted him on the arm to reassure him. \
\'93So I went for a walk around the inside of the wall. There were a few children out, just walking around like me, so it didn\'92t seem dangerous at all.\
\'93I found myself down by the West Gate, the small one just off the end of the market. I wasn\'92t going to stop, it\'92s too scary. Two towers, each of them three stories high with a machine gun nest on top.\
\'93But then behind me I heard running. I turned and saw a boy sprinting down the street towards the gate. His face was red, he was shouting something, raving, something I couldn\'92t understand.\'94\
Robin looked around nervously.\
\'93It\'92s all right if you don\'92t want to continue.\'94 said Vera.\
Robin shook his head and bravely continued, \'93I could see he was suffering. He looked like he was in pain, but also he looked angry. Very angry.\
\'93I could see what he was going to do. He was going to try and run through the gate, to escape. As I was watching him I could hear the guards shouting to each other in german, trying to figure out what to do. \
\'93I had to do something. I shouted at him and stepped into his path, trying to push him off balance, but he was really motoring. I pushed him but it wasn\'92t hard enough. He just batted me out of the way and kept going, raving all the time.\'94 Robin looked at Esme, \'93I should have tried harder Esme.\'94\
She shook her head, \'93You tried. That\'92s all anyone could do Robin.\'94\
\'93You can\'92t blame yourself,\'94 said June, \'93that doesn\'92t make any sense.\'94\
Robin took a deep breath, \'93So he kept going past me. It all seemed to happen really slowly then, the guards calling out \'91Stop\'92 and \'91Halt!\'92 but he just kept on. Then there was a sound like the air ripping, a short burst of machine gun fire, and he was torn to pieces not twenty yards from me.\'94\
\'93At least is was quick.\'94 said Phillip.\
\'93It was instant.\'94 said Robin, trying not to cry.\
\'93I heard the sound and ran down.\'94 said Esme. \'93It was horrible, even the germans looked upset. A boy, cut to ribbons, just lying there.\'94\
\'93Who would be stupid enough to try running through a gate in broad daylight?\'94 said Robin, looking desperately around the room, as if one of them could give him an answer.\
\'93Algie was mad as a snake.\'94 said Miles, \'93It wasn\'92t your fault old boy.\'94 Miles sipped his tea and continued, \'93He was homesick, yes, but that was the just final straw. He was quite mad, had his own nurse, and a strong man to keep him safe. The Germans can\'92t have known. Or maybe they did and they didn\'92t care.\'94\
\'93They dragged the body away. I\'92m not sure they are even going to give him a proper funeral.\'94 said Esme.\
\'93They\'92re beasts!\'94 exclaimed Robin, his sadness tipping into anger, \'93I can\'92t believe I was ready to give in to them.\'94\
\'93We must do something for him. A service.\'94 said Vera. \'93If only we had a priest.\'94\
Robin, still angry, spat. \'93You can\'92t trust them either can you? All the adults, they\'92re all dishonest or horrible.\'94\
No one disagreed with him. They all sat for a moment, heavy with sadness.\uc0\u8232 Toby looked at Miles, \'93Beevor\'92s speech.\'94 he said, and Miles\'92 eyes flickered with interest, \'93He made a deal with the Germans?\'94\
Miles nodded, \'93More or less. He thinks that if we keep the Germans happy then we could have our own government. With him at the head of it of course. He\'92s a bully, like his father.\'94\
\'93Do you agree with him?\'94 asked Vera.\
\'93Yes, in as far as we need to keep the peace and give ourselves something to do.\'94\
\'93But if he was going to have a government he would need to have elections.\'94\
Miles nodded, \'93Of course.\'94\
\'93Well then!\'94 said June brightly, \'93Toby could run, he\'92d be a brilliant Prime Minister.\'94\
Miles laughed, \'93He might do, but Beevor will win, hell make sure of it.\'94\
\'93And you\'92ll help Beevor?\'94 Asked Esme?\
Normally Toby knew what Esme was feeling, but he didn\'92t recognise the feeling coming off her now as she waited for his answer.\
\'93I will help him, yes. We need something to keep us busy.\'94\
Toby could feel the disappointment in Esme running off her in small waves.\
\'93But also,\'94 said Miles, a grin on his face, \'93I suspect that you all have another plan and I would very much like to help you in that.\'94\
The Walthamstow Reds looked around at each other, trying to figure out of they should tell Miles what they wanted to do.\
Toby spoke first, \'93We are trying to get the germans out of England.\'94\
The words hung in the air and everyone looked at Miles.\
\'93Goodness.\'94 he said, \'93What a capital idea!\'94 He broke out into a big smile.\
Toby looked at Esme who was now radiant with relief. Toby understood - she wanted Miles to be on their side. And she wanted to be near Miles.\
The only one who didn\'92t look pleased was Phillip. \
\'93What is it Phillip?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93Is \'91capital\'92 good?\'94\
\'93Yes.\'94 said Toby, \'93It\'92s just a fancy word for good.\'94\
\'93That\'92s exactly what it is.\'94 said Miles rising from his chair and clapping, \'93A very good idea. Get the Germans out. Fantastic! Let\'92s do it!\'94\
Esme laughed at Miles enthusiasm, but even as she laughed she held up her hands to object, \'93Hold on Miles, not so fast!\'94\
Miles sat down, waiting for Esme to continue.\
\'93We will get them out, but one thing at a time.\'94\
\'93Yes.\'94 said Miles, \'93Quite right. What shall we start with?\'94\
\'93As it happens June and I have been working on something we\'92d like to show you all.\'94 said Toby, nodding at June, who scurried off to find her work.\
While they sat there waiting for June to return Miles spoke, \'93I know we should have a priest, but since we don\'92t I think it would be a good show if we held a service for Algie ourselves don\'92t you?\'94\
\'93What? You mean like say the prayers and everything ourselves?\'94 said Robin, astonished.\
\'93Yes, and everything.\'94 said Miles. \'93I\'92ll do it if you\'92re queasy about it.\'94 \
Robin nodded.\
\'93Good.\'94 said Miles. \'93We\'92ll keep it simple. I\'92ll find a couple of prayers.\'94\
\'93I\'92ll make an arrangement.\'94 said Esme, \'93There\'92s no flowers this time of year, but I can make something from herbs and evergreens.\'94\
\'93And I\'92ll find a hymm.\'94 said Vera.\
\'93Who will come?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93There weren\'92t that many who knew him well. One of the Pyke sisters was close to him and she\'92s in here. Then there\'92s Charles, myself\'85 and another boy. Henry, he went to school with him, perhaps he will come.\'94\
\'93We\'92ll have it in the church.\'94 said Toby, \'93No one else is using it for anything else.\'94\
\'93Yes.\'94 said Miles, \'93if we are not children of god then who are?\'94\
\'93As long as Finch and Pethergrew don\'92t find out about it.\'94 muttered Toby.\
Ten minutes later they had all moved to the dining room, where there was room for June to unroll some butchers paper along the table. On it was a beautifully drawn map of Walthamstow.\
When she finished flattening it out June looked up at the surprised faces surrounding her, and started straight in. \
\'93Toby and I propose that we make a detailed map of the area inside the wall, and that on the map we mark all the points where there are gates, watch towers that sort of thing. We are looking for weak points in the wall, or in their organisation, anything like that. We also want to mark down where all the soldiers and officers stay and the movements of all the trucks and people into and out of the wall. And when soldiers come and go off duty, how many are stationed at which points and anything else that might help us.\'94\
\'93Help us what?\'94 asked Robin.\
Toby took over, \'93When we need to get out. And when we need to get back in.\'94 he said. \'93Being able to come and go as we please will help us find out what\'92s going on in the outside world.\'94\
\'93It\'92s a lot of work to find all this out.\'94 said Vera looking at the map.\
Toby nodded, \'93Yes it is, and most of it will be at night.\'94\
Philip tapped his finger on the table, \'93But no one\'92s allowed out at night now.\'94\
\'93We\'92ll have to be careful.\'94 said June. \'93But Toby is right, this is very important work. One day we might need to get out, at short notice. The more we know about the german\'92s movements the better.\'94\
\'93Back to you June.\'94 said Toby.\
June plonked a pile of exercise books onto the table, one for each of them. \'93Your schedules.\'94 she said, \'93I\'92ve made the first three days and nights, once we\'92ve done a first round we\'92ll have to adjust it.\'94\
Phillip, Esme, Robin and Vera opened their books, their eyebrows raising in amazement.\
\'93How long did this take?!\'94 said Vera, turning page after page of maps and tables of instructions and movements.\
\'93I got up early.\'94 said June.\
\'93How early?!\'94 asked Phillip.\
June shrugged, \'93Three in the morning. I don\'92t need that much sleep actually.\'94\
Miles was impressed, \'93This is top work June, top stuff. You\'92d show everyone at Eton a thing or two.\'94\
\'93There\'92s one more thing\'85\'94 said June, ignoring Miles\'92 compliment.\
\'93There\'92s something else?!\'94 said Robin.\
\'93Yes.\'94 she said, \'93We all have to learn Morse code.\'94\
\'93Why?\'94 said Vera, who looked like she just been given a triple dose of homework.\
\'93So we can communicate across distances, with torches.\'94 said June. \'93From up on the orphanage roof you can see almost all of the prison area.\'94\
Phillip looked crestfallen, \'93Morse code? But that\'92s hard!\'94\
\'93Nonsense!\'94 said June, \'93You just have to believe you can do it.\'94\
Phillip looked skeptical, but nodded. \'93I\'92ll try.\'94 he said.\
\'93That\'92s good enough for me.\'94 said June, \'93 A is dot-dash-pause.\'94\
\'93What!\'94 said Robin, \'93Do we have to start now?!\'94\
\'93It\'92s either that,\'94 said June, \'93or learning German - what would you prefer?\'94\
And so they all sat down to learn morse code, one painful letter at a time. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Notebooks and knitting\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 At nine o\'92clock that night Toby and Vera were getting ready to step out into the cold night. They were standing in the the hallway just inside the front door, wrapped in black coats that Vera had altered for their mission. The coats had tall, button-up collars that covered most of your face, keeping you warm and making sure that you were hard to identify. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Toby thought it only fair that he went out on the first night and Vera had volunteered to go with him before anyone else could put up their hand. Honestly he would rather have gone with Robin or Phillip, or even Esme, but he couldn\'92t turn her down. They needed all the enthusiasm they could get.\
June was talking them through what they had to do. They\'92d heard it all more than once already, so Toby wasn\'92t really listening. And if he did listen he just got nervous, so instead he just started nodding at whatever June was saying. While she was talking June was also setting a watch to the time of the hall clock, a monster of a thing that stood taller than any of them. It was June\'92s job to wind it and set it the BBC \'91pips\'92 once a day.\
When June handed Toby the watch he realised that they couldn\'92t put it off any longer and he turned toward the door.\
\'93Good luck.\'94 said Esme, adding 
\i I\'92ll be listening
\i0  in his head.\

\i Go to bed!
\i0  he said back to her.\
Phillip shook Toby\'92s hand, which struck Toby as odd, but he shook his hand back anyway.\
Robin slapped him on the back and wished Vera luck.\
As they stood in the shadow of the house, watching the back and forwards sweep of the searchlight from the other side of the house, Toby looked up into the sky. It was a calm and clear night and there were stars dotted around like flowers in a field. \
June had told him once that the light from some of the stars he was looking at had taken many millions of years to reach them. What he was seeing was light that was older than the human race, older than the dinosaurs.\
Somehow the thought that universe would go on without them was comforting to Toby. They had to fight, but one day all this drama and bother would pass.\
\'93Now!\'94 said Vera, pulling Toby out the gate and cross the road. Her run was well timed and they got around the corner well before the sweep of the search light got near them.\
\'93Good work.\'94 said Toby, trying to cover the fact that he had been daydreaming.\
She smiled, her teeth and eyes the only thing showing out of the folded blackness of her coat and the shadows. \
\'93To the West gate.\'94 she said, leading him off.\
They cautiously made their way down Forest Road, then across to within a hundred yards of the Western gate. The gate was in a wall that had been built across the end of double row of terraces. \
There were no lights in the surrounding houses, so they could move forward from house to house in the dark, ducking behind the fences as the two searchlights mounted over the gates swung steadily back and forwards. \
They stopped at a house about sixty yards from the gate. There was a four foot high brick fence right around the front garden and a tall hedge that ran inside that. The hedge was thin enough that they would be able to see through - perfect cover. \
Toby quietly slipped off his backpack and pulled out a stack of newspapers. They needed something to sit on to keep warm, and if they had to escape a stack of old newspapers wasn\'92t going to arouse suspicions if it was found.\
Putting his eyes to the binoculars Toby could see the whole gate and both the watch towers that stood either side of it. \
Glancing at his watch he started whispering to Vera, who had a notebook ready.\
\'93Nine fifteen in position. Six guards, three in each watch tower. One man on the light, one on machine gun and the other smoking.\'94 \
Vera copied down what he said.\
\'93They must get so bored.\'94 she whispered.\
\'93Better than being in Russia.\'94 said Toby, remembering the newspaper reports of men freezing in place as they hid from enemy fire and dying of starvation in the middle of the vast Russian wilderness. \
\'93You go first.\'94 said Toby, \'93I\'92ll wake you in an hour.\'94\
The idea was that they would take turns, and waking the other one up only when anything new happened.\
As Toby scanned the gate with the binoculars he felt really alive. Running the orphanage was good, but Toby realised he needed something more - he liked being active and he needed to be doing something big. \
He wondered what he might be doing now if the germans hadn\'92t turned up. He\'92d probably be causing Finch no end of trouble and living in solitary. But then, if there were no germans, Finch probably wouldn\'92t have bothered with the orphanage. They still would have had Mr Cage and he would have found a big interesting challenge for Toby to work at.\
Two hours later, coming up to eleven, he was feeling a lot less gung-ho about the task. He was cold and he was bored. Glancing at the watch on his wrist he saw he still had seven minutes to go before he could wake Vera and settle back down to sleep.\

\i Anything happening there?
\i0  said Esme in his head.\

\i Nothing - go to bed!
\i0  said Toby.\

\i Will do then, night.
\i0  said Esme.\
Toby pulled the binoculars up to his face. Beside him he could hear Vera sitting up and searching around for the notebook and pencil.\
\'93Ready?\'94 he whispered to her.\
\'93Ready.\'94 she said softly, the notebook open in her lap.\
Toby watched the goings on at the gate and whispered them to Vera. \'93A small truck pulls up behind the gate. The Germans on guard start to talk to themselves. They look happy. Search lights stop moving. Men at machine gun stand up and move away from gun.\
\'93What\'92s the time Toby?\'94 asked Vera. \
\'93Oh yeah.\'94 he forgotten to look at the watch, \'93Five to twelve.\'94 \
\'93Got it. Keep going.\'94\
\'93Men coming up stairs at the back of the gate. The gate remains closed. The new men walk into position with the old men still there. One man, he must be in charge, talks to another one, who hands him a book. Must be a report book. \
\'93The men slap each other on the back, some shake hands. A couple of men pass what looks like thermoses or bottles to the new men.\
\'93The old guards step away from their positions, go down the steps at the rear of the gate.\
\'93They climb into their truck, the truck drives off. Five past twelve.\'94\
A couple of moments after the new guards were in place Toby looked at Vera. \'93That\'92s going to be it until the morning isn\'92t it?\'94\
Vera nodded. \'93June did say it was going to be boring work.\'94\
\'93Yeah.\'94 said Toby, \'93but this is really really boring. It makes homework look interesting.\'94\
Vera said nothing, then, after a minute of silence, she said, \'93Did you cry at Algenon\'92s service?\'94\
\'93What do you want to know that for?\'94 said Toby, genuinely puzzled.\
Vera shrugged, \'93It was weird wasn\'92t it?\'94\
\'93That\'92s true enough.\'94\
\'93I would have cried, I wanted to.\'94 Vera said, \'93But I couldn\'92t. It was different.\'94\
\'93None of us knew him very well.\'94\
\'93No, it was something else.\'94 Vera paused for a moment, trying to figure out what she was feeling. \'93I was angry. I couldn\'92t cry because I was angry.\'94\
\'93At the germans?\'94\
\'93At all of it Toby. The war. Why are people so horrible to each other?\'94\
That was a question that Toby couldn\'92t answer. He shook his head. \'93It\'92s madness Vera, that\'92s all I know.\'94\
\'93It\'92s selfishness. That\'92s what starts it all. Selfish men wanting more than they need.\'94\
Toby was surprised at her outburst, she had never said anything like that before. But she had point, and he had to admit that he thought more of her for saying it. She really did feel things very deeply. \
Toby thought back to the service. \
The Church wasn\'92t locked, they had simply walked in. Robin found the switch board and turned the lights on, though Esme got him to turn most of them out again. She had found the stock of church candles and lit some of those instead.\
They had been joined for the service by the boy called Henry, a tall silent type, skinny as a string bean, and a girl who introduced herself as Emily Pyke. She was the same age as Toby and Esme, but she was so elegant and well dressed that she seemed to be of another world. She even had scent on, which Toby could smell as he shook her hand, a sweet expensive waft of privilege. \
Normally the vicar would stand in the pulpit and do everything from there. The pulpit was a big thing, made of dark wood and fronted by a massive carved eagle. \
Turning his back on the pulpit Miles said, \'93Let\'92s stand in a circle.\'94 and it seemed like the perfect thing to do. \
Miles said some words about Algernon, about what a funny boy he had been, before reading out a prayer for the dead. Emily recited a poem from memory in her soft, melodic voice. It was beautiful, but Toby couldn\'92t really tell what it was about, there were lots of names of things and people he didn\'92t recognise.\
Then they all sung three hymms before Toby closed with the Lords prayer. \
Afterwards they went to Mile\'92s for tea. Vera had made a lovely sponge cake, dusted with icing sugar. They ate slices of it off plates with forks. The reds would have normally used their fingers, and watching Phillip struggle with the dainty fork would have been funny in any other setting.\
What surprised Toby about the whole thing was that he didn\'92t notice the lack of a vicar. He thought that maybe the service would be less real, or less meaningful, without one, but it had seemed better. They had chosen the prayers, the songs and the flowers there was no lack of respect or feeling because of it.\
\'93I did cry.\'94 said Toby. \'93During the poem. I didn\'92t even really understand it.\'94\
\'93She was good at speaking.\'94 said Vera, her voice carrying an uncharacteristic edge to it.\
Toby picked up the binoculars and looked out at the guard post.\
\'93Nothing new.\'94 he said.\
\'93It\'92s a shame you can\'92t knit.\'94 said Vera.\
\'93Seriously?\'94 said Toby, \'93You bought knitting with you?\'94\
\'93It passes the time, and by the end of the night I will have made a new jumper for one of the little ones.\'94\
Toby had to admit that would be more useful and interesting than the six hours of watching stretching out in front of him. \
\'93And once you get the hang of it you can knit in the dark. Not like embroidery.\'94\
\'93I couldn\'92t do embroidery.\'94 said Toby, \'93I don\'92t have the patience.\'94\
\'93You\'92re right, you don\'92t.\'94 said Vera, \'93But knitting is easier. I could teach you. And I won\'92t tell the others.\'94\
Toby nodded, \'93Anything is better than nothing I guess.\'94 \
And that was how he ended up taking lessons in knitting after midnight sitting on newspapers behind a brick wall watching a bunch of german\'92s who were meant to be watching them.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Beevor's new world\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 By the end of the week all of the Walthamstow Reds\'92 were tired - tired and grumpy. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 They didn\'92t tell any of the other children in the orphanage what they were up to, but every now and then Toby would feel the eyes of another child on him and he would realise that he had dozed off, head down, on a school desk.\
Toby was still making sure he went down to the Town Hall for a couple of hours in the late afternoon. He didn\'92t want to miss out on any gossip. He would take one of the girls down with him, usually June or Esme as Vera would be preparing the evening meal. \
If he went with June they would both sit with books open on the desk. She would read hers while Toby would pretend. Over the top of the book he would watch the children, the workers at the serving hatch and the guards, always with one eye out for Pethergrew or Finch. \
With hundreds of children to look at there was always something to see. \
No one talked to him much. Everyone knew Toby as the Orphanage boy who had stood up and interrupted Beevors\'92 speech. Besides which the Walthamstow Reds\'92 were working class, not posh. And they were orphans, which all the older children were not. They were seperated by many differences, and no one seemed to want to cross the divide. \
Toby spent a lot of his time watching top table. They would be listening to Beevor rambling on about something, drinking endless cups of tea or playing cards for matchsticks. They played Bridge, a very complicated game that Miles told him they had all learned at boarding school. When Toby had asked him to teach him Miles had waved him away saying, \'93Life is too short for card games Toby.\'94 Yet here Miles was, playing for hours on end.\
Sometimes June would start tapping her pencil on the table. Short-long-short. She tapped out morse code and he would say the words back. Then she would say a word and he would have to tap it back to her. She even tried giving him extra maths homework once, but he flatly refused to do it, much to her disgust. But Toby knew that June was very protective of Toby. He knew she thought he was a bit stupid and too headstrong, but he also valued her gifts, which was more than many other children did. Toby had a use for a brain-box and June had a need of interesting things to do with her brain, tasks and challenges that he could give her. \
When he came down with Esme she would sit upright, knitting or crocheting something for one of the smaller children. Toby would play patience then, but while they both sat there saying nothing they would practice their head-talking, chatting backwards and forwards about things they were seeing, making comments about the children, or the guards. \
They could sit for an hour and look like they had said nothing to each other when really they had been talking flat-out the whole time.\
So when Beevor took to the stage and the hall fell quiet Toby and Esme were still talking to each other.\

\i What is he doing?
\i0  asked Esme\

\i Another speech.
\i0  said Toby 
\i Hope I don\'92t make a fool of myself this time.
\i0 \

\i I won\'92t let you
\i0 \

\i Thanks!
\i0 \
It was an announcement not a speech. \'93Hello everybody.\'94 said Beevor, a blue cravat billowing on his puffed-up chest, \'93A week ago I talked about having an election, an election for a leader and for a cabinet of six people to govern and lead us through these harsh times.\
\'93I am pleased to tell you that the election will be held on Friday, this Friday, at 4pm. There will be one ballot for the leader and another one for the cabinet.\'94 he paused then, looking around the room to see if everyone understood, \'93And so onto the nominations.\'94\

\i That was quick!
\i0  said Esme\

\i He\'92s doing it fast so no one else will have a chance.
\i0 \

\i Why don\'92t you run Toby, just to annoy him?
\i0 \

\i Me? Leader? You have to be joking, I\'92d never win. I wouldn\'92t want to win. Imagine trying to have to lead this lot, fifty children at the orphanage is hard enough.
\i0 \

\i It\'92s not like you\'92d be doing it alone, we could help.
\i0 \

\i I wouldn\'92t even get close to winning, Beevor has this sewn up, you wait and see, no one else would even want to be Prime Minister of a prison - what\'92s the point?.
\i0 \
Beevor spoke again, \'93Is there anyone who would like to nominate someone for the position of leader?\'94\
At this point Beevor looked around the hall, as if he didn\'92t know what was going to happen next.\
It was Miles who put up his hand and spoke, \'93I would like to nominate you Beevor, if I may.\'94\
\'93Very well, if it falls on me to be lead, then so be it.\'94 said Beevor, with a false sense of humility. \'93Is there anyone else?\'94\
He looked around the room for a while, waiting for anyone else to put up their hand. No one stirred\
\'93Very well, I accept your nomination and as the sole nominee I think we should spare the vote and on Friday I will take my place at the head of the cabinet.\'94\
A round of applause followed and continued until Beevor put up his hand for silence. \'93And now my cabinet. These boys will help me reach bigger decisions, and will deal with the day to day details of running the camp. These are important positions that require maturity, good sense and devotion to British values. Would anyone care to nominate anyone?\'94\
Beevor moved to one side of the stage and stood at a chalk board, ready to write in names.\
Within a minute all the boys at top table had all nominated each other. Beever nominated Miles. Soon their were eight names on the board. After that there there three more nominations from around the hall, one of them was clearly a joke as the boy nominated was about six. Beevor chuckled and put the name on the board anyway.\
\'93Very well.\'94 he said, \'93If there are no more nominations I will close them and we will hear speeches and vote on Friday.\'94\

\i Put up your hand
\i0 , said Esme, 
\i nominate me.
\i0 \

\i What?!
\i0 \

\i There\'92s no girls up there, there should be at least one. Shouldn\'92t there?
\i0 \

\i Yes, yes there should.
\i0 \

\i Go on then, before he stops.
\i0 \
Toby put up his hand and spoke out into the surprised silence. \'93I should like to nominate my sister, Esme Tunstall, for cabinet.\'94\
There was a murmur around the hall - who would nominate a girl?\
Beevor looked confused. \'93I am not sure that is in the rules.\'94\
\'93What rules are these?\'94 said Esme standing up and speaking strong, only Toby could see she was shaking with nerves. \'93I would like to see them if I may.\'94\
\'93Well,\'94 bluffed Beevor, \'93they are not written down anywhere.\'94\
\'93Oh!\'94 said Esme, \'93Not written down? That doesn\'92t sound very democratic to me.\'94\
Beevor looked down at the top table, looking for help. Toby saw Miles nod. \
\'93Very well.\'94 said Beevor, \'93The nomination for Esme Tunstall is accepted.\'94 he scrawled her name up onto the board, \'93And now nominations are very much closed. See you all Friday at four.\'94 \
Beevor stomped off the stage, scowling in their direction. It seemed like one or other of the Tunstall twins was always raining on Beevor\'92s parade. \
\'93Well then.\'94 said Esme, \'93Friday at four it is!\'94 And before Toby could say anything Esme had lifted herself off her chair and sailed past top table, stopped to give a mock curtsy to Miles\'92 polite bow, before swinging towards a table full of girls and sitting down with them.\

\i Stay back!
\i0  she said to Toby, 
\i You can\'92t help here. Go home and wait for me.
\i0 \
Looking at the table Toby could see that Emily Pyke was there, settled in between two other girls who looked exactly the same - elegant and poised - though one was smaller and the other larger. \
Around them sat another half a dozen girls, all cut from the same cloth. \
\'91Top table for girls\'92 thought Toby.\
Realising that he wasn\'92t going to do any good there, he went back up to the orphanage, quietly slipped up the stairs and lay down in bed. \
He was on patrol again tonight and he needed some rest. But no matter how long he lay there he couldn\'92t get to sleep. He kept thinking about Miles. \
Was he really on their side like he said? It was possible that he was playing both sides in a very elaborate game, one that made Bridge look easy. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Sewers and rhubarb\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 After a week of spying they had a good picture of everything that the Germans\'92 did inside Stalag E17. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 They knew when they changed guards at all the gates, they knew when the food came in, they knew what time the teachers, kitchen staff and cleaners were let through the back gate and into the Town Hall. They knew where all the soldiers were barracked and which houses - the very best ones - that the officers lived in.\
They had called a war council to review their work, and they had invited Miles. \
\'93The guards are always doubled and the only gate that is ever opened regularly is the Town Hall gate, and that is guarded by twelve soldiers in the day and six at night.\'94 said Toby.\
June continued, \'93Everyone going in and out has to show a pass. They are ticked off on a list that is new every day.\'94\
\'93But that\'92s not the worst of it.\'94 said Toby, \'93The really bad thing is that everyone who goes in and out the Town Hall gate is an adult. If a child tried to leave they would be seen straight away.\'94\
\'93What about climbing the wall?\'94 asked Robin.\
\'93We\'92ve mapped the reach of the searchlights.\'94 said June, pointing to the map and tracing one of the triangles that she had drawn there in dotted lines. \'93You can see that they overlap perfectly. There isn\'92t one foot of the wall that is dark for longer than thirty seconds.\'94\
\'93So it\'92s possible?\'94 asked Toby, \'93You can climb a wall in thirty seconds.\'94\
\'93Impossible.\'94 added June. \'93I timed Phillip trying to get over the garden wall with a rope ladder and it took him a minute and a half - and the prison walls are twice as high.\'94 \
The Walthamstow Reds looked around at each other. Toby thought they all looked tired, the long nights had taken their toll, and now that they had found nothing useful, Toby felt awful. It was his idea, and it had got them nowhere.\
Toby looked at Miles. \'93What do you think Miles, is there something we are missing?\'94\
\'93I think you\'92ve all done an amazing job. But I\'92m afraid you\'92re right, the Germans are very thorough. It doesn\'92t look promising.\'94 Miles looked at Esme, \'93Your best chance might be diplomacy.\'94\
\'93Sucking up to the toffs?\'94 said Robin.\
\'93We must do everything we can to get Esme into the Cabinet.\'94 said Miles.\
\'93How will that help?\'94 said Esme. \
\'93Don\'92t you want to get elected?\'94 asked Miles.\
\'93I just wanted to show all those boys they couldn\'92t just walk over us girls like that.\'94 replied Esme.\
\'93Here here!\'94 said Vera. June applauded.\
\'93But,\'94 Esme continued, \'93I have no idea what goes on. Or what use I will be. I know it\'92s a good thing to do, that\'92s all.\'94\
\'93Committees and councils and votes and minutes.\'94 said Miles. \'93All very dull at one level, but with you there they won\'92t be able to just do what they like. You might be able stop them granting themselves all the power and the privilege.\'94\
\'93Does Emily support you?\'94 June asked Esme.\
\'93I think so. I explained that I would be a good person to have on the Cabinet because I knew the area and what would grow here and that I would represent the needs of all the girls. She said she would think about supporting me. If she did, and I got all the girls, and all of you that would give me around one hundred and fifty votes out of a thousand. I\'92m not sure that would be enough.\'94\
\'93It will be enough.\'94 said Miles, \'93I\'92ll make sure it is.\'94\
Friday came around quickly and the Walthamstow Reds found themselves entering the hall, every child from the orphanage over the age of ten in tow, ready to vote for Esme. \
After a lengthy and self-important speech from Beevor, who now wore a thick gold chain and medallion around his even thicker neck, the voting began. \
Each child was given a piece of paper with nine names on it, including Miles and Esme. One by one the children stood up, ducked behind a screen, made a cross in a box beside their chosen candidate\'92s name, and dropped the paper into a box.\
It took two hours for everyone to cast their votes, and another two hours for the sorting and counting to take place. The votes were counted at the top table, each vote checked by two boys then placed in a pile.\
The younger children got fidgety and Toby let Phillip take them outside to play hopscotch on the driveway between the Town Hall and the civic fountain. \
Finally the votes had been counted and Beevor took to the stage.\
He read out the names and the number of votes they had. Toby gasped twice - first when Beevor read out Esme\'92s votes - over three hundred, and then again when he read out Miles - he had only one. One vote. \
One of the top table boys, Anthony Carthage, had the most votes with four hundred, but Esme was second. The final cabinet was made up of five of the top table boys and Esme. But no Miles.\
Esme kept saying \'93Oh my!\'94 like she couldn\'92t really believe it, and a steady line of girls formed, headed by Emily, each waiting to congratulate her and tell her that they had made sure to vote for her.\
Toby was curious to find out why Miles had got only one vote. Seeing Miles slip out of the hall, Toby followed him.\
The younger children were still playing hopscotch, and the two boys stood watching them for a minute. \
Toby looked over at the Town Hall. The Nazi flags were still there, hanging from the portico. Access around the side of the building had been blocked off with a fence topped with barbed wire, and he knew from looking at the Town Hall all through the night that is was very well guarded, with a machine gun nest on a balcony. Behind the front door the whole Town Hall had been taken over as an administration building. One wing was offices, the other a small hospital ward. \
It was probably in one of those offices that Finch worked. Toby looked up there now, half expecting to see him looking down and laughing.\uc0\u8232 Toby looked back at Miles. \'93How did you do that?\'94\
\'93Do what old boy?\'94\
\'93Come on.\'94 said Toby, \'93Somehow you gave all your votes to Esme.\'94\
Miles laughed, \'93No Toby, I\'92m not that clever! All I did was make tell everyone that I was backing Anthony Carthage.\'94\
\'93How did that help?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93I always knew that Anthony was going to win, he has the most friends in here. So it didn\'92t matter if he got three hundred or five hundred votes did it?\'94\
\'93No.\'94 said Toby, not getting what Miles was driving at. \
Then he got it, \'93I see! That meant that whatever votes that Esme could get would count for more, because everyone else would be fighting over a much smaller number of votes.\'94\
\'93That\'92s it!\'94 said Miles, \'93So I knew one hundred and fifty votes would be enough. But,\'94 he added, holding up a finger, \'93what\'92s really impressive is that Esme didn\'92t need my help, she would have been second or third anyway.\'94\
\'93But you gave up your chances.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93Much better to have someone sensible in the Cabinet.\'94 said Miles.\
\'93So who was the one person who voted for you?\'94\
Miles looked at him and frowned. \'93I think that is very easy to work out, given how generous your sister is.\'94\
His sister, of course she would have voted for Miles, she would think that only fair.\
After a quarter of an hour the rest of the Walthamstow Reds came out of the hall, Esme in the lead. She looked flushed from all the attention, flushed and happy.\
For a moment they all stood together, not saying anything, just watching the younger children shouting and laughing as they played. It was a beautiful evening. The sky was clear and just beginning to turn a light shade of purple, showing that dusk would soon be there. \
In front of them was the perfect circle of the Civic fountain. There hadn\'92t been any water in it for years, but even the dirty puddle of rainwater that pooled in the middle looked good in the fading light, a mirror catching a round piece of the sky.\
Vera, who was standing next to Toby, said \'93Do you remember when they used to turn the fountain on in summer?\'94\
\'93Is was really impressive.\'94 said Phillip pointing up into the sky, \'93Used to go up higher than the top of the clock tower there.\'94\
\'93Must have been a lot of water pressure to do that.\'94 said Miles.\
\'93There\'92s a large reservoir on top of the hill behind us.\'94 said June, who then continued, in typical June way, to tell them everything she knew. \'93There\'92s a whole range of waterworks in the valley - canals, reservoirs, tunnels, flood defences and barriers. All built by the Victorians when Walthamstow was developed sixty years ago.\'94\
\'93Is that right?\'94 said Miles, turning to look at June, \'93Are you sure?\'94\
\'93Of course I am sure!\'94 she said, cross at being doubted.\
\'93Well that\'92s brilliant then!\'94 said Miles.\
\'93Is it?\'94 replied a surprised June. \
Miles laughed, \'93Yes! Waterworks!\'94\
\'93Oh, oh I see! I see!\'94 said June, jumping up and down with excitement.\
\'93Quietly now!\'94 said Miles, \'93We don\'92t want anyone to overhear us.\'94\
\'93What is it?\'94 whispered Phillip, completely confused.\
\'93I wonder what\'92s under the streets.\'94 said Miles very quietly.\
Robin whispered urgently, \'93Of course! Sewers and drains!\'94\
\'93Sewers and drains.\'94 said Miles, \'93Worth a look isn\'92t it?\'94\
Toby thought it was a great idea. \'93It\'92s well worth a look.\'94\
Suddenly things didn\'92t seem so hopeless.\
June continued her lecture. \'93The Lee Valley has had waterworks on it for centuries. There\'92s at least two pump houses within a mile of here, each of them built to push water from the reservoirs down into London City. Then there\'92s the big reservoir on the hill, right where the trams turn.\'94\
Toby remembered it. Across from the tram stop where he had launched his tram attack was a huge brick enclosure that held water for all of Walthamstow. The water pressure for all the water in Walthamstow and the Civic fountain came from the difference in height between the reservoir on the top of the hill and the suburb itself.\
\'93There must be lots of tunnels linking everything up.\'94 Esme said. \
\'93We could just lift a man hole cover and go down.\'94 said Phillip.\
\'93But how will we know which is which - and what is safe? It would be so easy to drown wouldn\'92t it?\'94 said Esme.\
\'93Very dangerous indeed.\'94 agreed Miles.\
\'93There will be maps.\'94 said June.\
\'93But where?\'94 said Toby.\
\'93Right in there.\'94 said June, pointing to the Town Hall and the guards standing at the entrance.. \
\'93The one place we can\'92t go.\'94 said Robin. \
Toby nodded, \'93It\'92s surrounded by Germans.\'94\
Toby looked at Miles, who shrugged. Esme could only look at the ground. \
Toby thought about what they would have to do to map the sewers and drains themselves, right under the noses of the Germans. It would be hard work, and dangerous. He wasn\'92t sure that he could ask the Reds\'92 to do that, not after seeing how the week of spying had taken it out of them.\
It seemed like they had reached a dead end.\
\'93I know!\'94 said Vera.\
All the others looked at her without much hope. \
\'93Rhubarb.\'94 she said. \'93Rhubarb will get us the plans.\'94\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440

\f1\fs44 \cf0 Part 4 
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b\fs24 \cf0 A secret sickness\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Doctor Cliffe looked at Phillip with dislike. The boy who had shown up at the hospital last night in obvious agony and yet there was nothing wrong with him. His heart rate was normal, his temperature was normal, no bones were broken and there was no blood anywhere. Not that anyone cared about him, he was just an orphan after all, not one of the precious prisoners who had to be looked after and pampered. It wasn\'92t right, as far as Cliffe was concerned, that people like himself - hard-working professional people - should have a lower standard of living than the prisoners he was looking after. They had meat every night, he had meat once a week. They had hot water from the tap, electric light all the time. Biscuits. \
He had parsnips if he was lucky.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Cliffe sighed and clipped the boys chart back on the end of his bed.\uc0\u8232 \'93Nurse, more painkillers and make sure he drinks a lot of water. Whatever is wrong with him is inside him, something he ate. If it\'92s not that it\'92s something more serious and more serious matters will have to wait until the morning.\'94\
\'93Yes Doctor.\'94\
\'93We\'92ll send him to Whipps Hospital if it stays like this, though I am not sure why we should bother.\'94\
Doctor Cliffe spun on his heel took three sharp steps across the wooden floor and was out the door.\
Phillip didn\'92t like being talked about like he was a nuisance. And he didn\'92t like being manhandled by the nurse, who seemed impossibly old, smelt of sickly-sweet talcum powder and whose cheeks sagged down below her jaw. That was what happened to people who never smiled, they lost muscles in their face and their mouths started to slip off.\
She shoved two pills and a glass of water at his face. He took them and gladly swallowed them down. He knew what he had wrong with him, and he knew it would go away and by the feel of his guts he thought it might go away tomorrow. So he had to do the job tonight or the last three days of being in agony would be pointless.\uc0\u8232 Finally the nurse, having tucked him into his bed so tight he could barely move, had finished with him and left. Lying in the darkness he waited ten minutes for the painkillers to work, got out of bed. Using pillows from the other unoccupied beds in the room he made a fake sleeping boy. It wasn\'92t brilliant but it would pass if the nurse decided to look in on him in the next few hours, unlikely though that was. She would more than likely be making her way through a giant pot of tea and the stack of Mills and Boon romances that she hid from the doctors in a stationery cupboard.\
Phillip only had a vague idea of the layout of the Town Hall. He knew that it was split into two parts now. The hospital was new, put there when they turned Walthamstow into a prison. That was in the East wing on the first floor. The rest of the building had been taken over by the Germans as Administration offices. It was from here that they ran the prison, checked worked in and out everyday and worked out the rotas of guards and supplies. \
The first thing Phillip had to do was get past the nurse\'92s station and out of the hospital wing. It wasn\'92t too hard, he just had to wait quietly until the nurse needed a toilet break and he slipped out the double doors and into the main corridor.\
There were no lights on in the corridor, but the because there were half a dozen or so searchlights on the front of the building pointing out into the prison, there was plenty of light. It was an elegant, high-ceilinged space, with large wood doors off to the sides and a floor or inlaid wood. \
He was able to quickly glide along the corridor, ducking in and out of the deep shadows, past empty offices, towards the stair well. The best bet was that the map he was looking for would be in an office at the back of the building, on the ground floor. It was there that the engineering and works department offices were. At least that\'92s where the directory board in the foyer said they were. He\'92d managed to take a look when he had walked into the hospital three days ago, though all he\'92d really felt like doing at the time was being violently ill.\
No, there the lights were on in one office. Phillip slowed down and crept towards the light coming from an open door. There were voices. One of them seemed familiar. \
Standing in a deep shadow just outside the door Phillip made sure he was breathing very quietly and he listened.\
\'93We will have all the badges printed by the end of the week.\'94\
\'93Very good, Herr Commander.\'94\
The first voice was Finch, Phillip would know it anywhere. He suddenly felt very afraid.\
\'93Then we can begin the next phase of operations. These children have been spoilt for too long already.\'94\
\'93They have. Though we will have to be careful.\'94\
\'93Don\'92t worry, it will seem like their idea. Even these posh kids are thick as boards, they\'92ll be at each other\'92s throats within the month.\'94\
Phillip, really worried now, stopped thinking about keeping absolutely still and rocked on his feet. A loud squeak came up from the floor where a loose piece of flooring rubbed against its neighbour.\
The talking inside the room stopped.\
\'93Who is it?\'94 called out Finch?\
Phillip knew if he ran he would give himself away immediately and he would be chased for a few minutes before a dog got to him. He had to stay still. He leaned back into the shadows.\
Finch popped his head out of the door and quickly looked from side to side. Too quickly. He didn\'92t see Phillip who was less than two feet away. Perhaps he was looking for an adult, perhaps he was looking for something moving. Either way Phillip was very glad when Finch turned back into the room, his Luger pistol glinting in the light.\
\'93Nothing.\'94 said Finch to the other man as he walked back in.\
\'93You\'92re too jump Herr Finch.\'94\
Taking a chance Phillip flicked across the doorway and moved as fast as he dared down the corridor, his movement hopefully covered by the loud clatter of Finch\'92s boots on the floor as he walked back to his desk.\
Reaching the stairway unchallenged, Phillip allowed himself a moment to relax before carefully descending to the basement level. It was almost pitch black down here and he pulled a stub of candle out his pyjama pocket, struck a match and lit it. The flickering light made all the shadows jump and he had to take a couple of breaths to steady himself. \
It didn\'92t take him long to find the door to the \'91Works and Engineering\'92 office, he was near his goal. But when he pushed open the door he was disheartened to see how large the room was. There were rows upon rows of desks and a dozen large technical drawing boards, each with sheets of paper on them as big as a man. \
He held his candle over the drawing tables to look at the maps and plans on them. With any luck the thing he wanted would be on a table, ready to steal. He looked over them one by one. There were plans of the gun and searchlight towers, plans of the gates, plans od modifications to the town hall, but nothing that we was looking for.\
Around the edges of the room there were two dozen sets of plan draws, each six foot high and as wide. What he wanted would be in one of those. It was going to take him hours to look through them. He just had to hope they were organised in some kind of order. \
He looked over the labels on one set of draws. OE20003-1913, OE25653-1915, OE32987-1918. The last number was a year, but what did the rest mean? He wished June were here, she would get it in an instant. He would have to make up for his lack of ability with numbers and letters by slogging it out. That\'92s what he had that the others didn\'92t, that\'92s why he took the mission even though he knew he would feel ill for days. He had stickability. He was physically strong, yes, but he was also tenacious. No matter how boring it would be to look through all the maps in all these draws, he would do it. He didn\'92t mind \'91boring\'92, he quite liked it. He liked to find a rhythm and stick to it for a long time. He could stop worrying then and just work.\
So he started at one corner of the room and worked his way from the top to the bottom of the first set of drawers, pulling them out one by one and pulling up the maps in them, one by one. It was slow work, he didn\'92t know what the map of the storm water drains would look like so he had to look at each map very carefully.\
When he finished the first set of drawers he looked up at the clock on the wall. 3am. It had taken him an hour. At this rate it would take him days to go through each draw. But all the maps seemed to be organised by draw, so if he just looked at the top map in each draw that should work. It would have to work, he only had three hours before people started coming in to start their day.\
He took a deep breath, ignored a sudden stab of hunger, and moved onto the next set of drawers, opening the draws and looking at plans as fast as he could.\
Forty minutes later, just when he was beginning to wonder if he had missed what he was looking for, he found the right draw. WW001108-1934. Water works? There were a couple of maps that looked right, street maps in thin light lines and over the top of that a network of drains with positions of man hole covers. There was a huge map that covered the section from the Town Hall right down to the Lea Canal that showed three major storm water drains running under Walthamstow. That was what they wanted. He had found it.\
Holding the map he folded it down as tight as he could, picked up a rubberband off a desk and wrapped it around the map until it was good and tight. Now all he had to do was get back past Finch, then the nurse station and into bed. And that he could do, it was just a question of waiting for Finch to leave the building and go to bed. The nurse usually dropped off to sleep in her chair about one in the morning and snored so loudly she would never hear him creep by. All he had to do was be patient and he would have completed his mission. \
Then eating that ghastly pile of Rhubarb leaves would have been worth it. He still just about threw up when he remembered choking them down. June and her brilliant ideas. How did she know that Rhubarb leaves were a mild poison? How did she know how much he would have to eat to get sick without dying? \
Rhubarb and custard used to be a favourite, but there was no way he would be eating rhubarb again, not as long as he lived. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Committees\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 \'93I have to go, I just have to, and that\'92s final.\'94 said Robin, his arms crossed in front of his body.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Toby looked at Miles for support, but he just shrugged. \'93I \'91m just not sure you\'92re committed enough Robin.\'94 said Toby, aware that he didn\'92t really have a good reason why he didn\'92t want Robin to be in the escape group. \
\'93Committed to what?\'94 asked Robin.\
Toby shook his head and stayed quiet, looking to Esme to see if she knew what he was talking about.\
She frowned at him. He waited for her to say something in his head, but she spoke out loud instead. \'93Robin is clever and resourceful, he\'92ll be a great help. And this gives him a chance to prove that he is committed as you put it.\'94\
\'93Thanks Esme.\'94 said Robin.\
\'93And me.\'94 said Vera. \'93You need someone sensible to go along.\'94\
\'93Four? That\'92s too many!\'94 said Toby.\
\'93You can stay home then.\'94 said Vera.\
\'93I need to go.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93Because you\'92re the boss of us?!\'94 said Vera, challenging him. \
Toby sighed, \'93It\'92s not like that, it\'92s because\'85. you know\'85\'94 What he didn\'92t want to talk about in front of Miles was his ability to talk to Esme in his head.\
\'93We should tell him.\'94 said Esme.\
\'93Tell me what?\'94 asked Miles, suddenly alert.\
\'93Do we have to?\'94 asked Toby.\
Esme looked at him sternly, as if say of course we have to.\
June, who had been carefully looking at the map, popped her head up and said, \'93Do you mean about the telepathy?\'94\
\'93The what?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93Telepathy. That\'92s what it\'92s called when people can communicate without physically talking.\'94\
Miles laughed. \'93You think you\'92re telepathic?!\'94\
Toby felt his cheeks begin to burn, \'93See? He thinks it\'92s ridiculous.\'94 \
\'93It\'92s not ridiculous,\'94 said Miles, looking from one to the other like he changed his mind about them both and thought them crazy, \'93It\'92s impossible.\'94\
Toby looked over at Esme. She was looking confused and upset. \'93But it\'92s true Miles.\'94 she protested, weakly.\
June pushed the map off her knee and stood up. \'93Miles, what are the chances of guessing all the cards in a card deck correctly from one end to the other?\'94\
\'93Impossible.\'94 said Miles again.\
\'93Not impossible,\'94 said June, like she was talking to one of the young children, \'93But the probability of guessing fifty two cars in a row is close to zero yes?\'94\
\'93Agreed.\'94 said Miles.\
\'93Well then\'85 Vera, a deck of cards please.\'94 June held out her hand.\
Without wondering why she was doing June\'92s bidding, Vera whipped out to the games room and was back in a flash with a deck of playing cards which she handed to June. June opened the pack, slipped them out and gave them to Miles. \'93Off you go then.\'94\
Miles looked at June like she had lost her mind too, then looked at Esme like he was unsure of whet she wanted him to do.\
\'93Shuffle.\'94 said Esme.\
Miles shiffled the cards for a minute.\
\'93Pick one, look at it and show it to me, making sure that Toby doesn\'92t see it.\'94\
Miles did as he was told, picking a card from the middle of the deck, glancing at it and then showing it to Esme.\
\'93Six of clubs.\'94 said Toby, looking at the picture of the card that Esme had sent him in his mind.\
Miles looked startled. He picked another card.\
\'93Queen of diamonds.\'94 said Toby.\
Miles went through a dozen cards before he stopped. He looked quite pale. He looked around the room at the Walthamstow Reds. \'93But that is impossible.\'94\
\'93Yes.\'94 agreed Robin, \'93It is, but you can see the evidence.\'94\
Miles looked nervously around him. He picked up a book off the table, a heavy encylopedia that June read for light entertainment. He flicked to a page and held it up to Esme, pointing at a passage.\
Esme read it silently and projected the words in Toby\'92s mind. \
\'93Insects are the most numerous animals in both numbers of individuals and of different kinds, with more than a million species in all habitats except the sea, and they are of enormous economic importance as pests and carriers of disease, and also as pollinators.\'94\
\'93Stop!\'94 said Miles. He was shaking.\
\'93I\'92m sorry.\'94 said Esme, \'93We didn\'92t ask for it or anything, it just happened.\'94\
Miles collapsed back int his chair. \'93My god.\'94 he said quietly, \'93That\'92s amazing.\'94\
\'93So you see,\'94 said June, as if what had just happened were perfectly normal, \'93Toby needs to go so that we can keep in touch using telepathy.\'94\
\'93Yes.\'94 said Miles, still stunned, \'93Yes I see now.\'94\
Toby, keen to give poor Miles a break, picked the map up off the floor. \'93talk us through it June?\'94\
\'93Hold on.\'94 said Phillip, who had been quiet the whole time. \'93What about me? I spent five days in hospital sick as a dog to get that bleeding map, I think I have earned the right to come along too.\'94\
Toby threw his hands up in the air. Esme laughed and Miles just looked confused. \'93Who isn\'92t coming?\'94 he asked.\
\'93June and I will stay.\'94 said Esme. \'93We\'92ll have the map and the brains to figure out what to do if\'85\'94\
She stopped talking, suddenly aware of what she was saying. \
\'93When things go wrong.\'94 said Robin, finishing her sentence for her.\
Miles, who seemed to be recovering, said \'93It won\'92t go wrong, not if we move fast. That\'92s the key. We have to get all the way over to Mayfair and back before roll call at seven in the morning. Last roll call is at dinner so that gives us twelve hours exactly.\'94\
\'93And how far is it?\'94 asked Vera.\
\'93It\'92s Mayfair.\'94 said Miles, forgetting for a moment that no one in the room apart from him had so much been West of Tottenham Court Road. \'93It\'92s about eight miles from here I should think. A long walk.\'94\
\'93Sixteen miles should be about five and half hours walking.\'94 said Phillip, who regularly walked miles into Epping Forest to get firewood.\
\'93But it will be longer. It\'92s night, we\'92ll have to stick to canal paths and backstreets.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93I\'92ve plotted the perfect path.\'94 said June, holding up an old A-Z of London street maps.\
Miles, being the only one who knew central London properly, took it and flicked through the pages, tracing the line June had made in red pencil. After five minutes looking at it he got up from his chair, went to June and shook her hand. \'93Perfect June, couldn\'92t have done better myself.\'94 \
June flushed with pleasure as Miles turned to the others. \'93That\'92s it then. We have a route, we have a team and we have an aim. All we need is time.\'94\
\'93Tonight.\'94 said Toby. \'93Why wait?\'94\
\'93Tomorrow night.\'94 said June. \'93I have to copy some things out for you, make you a map of the drains, give you a schedule.\'94\
\'93A schedule? What are you talking about?\'94 asked Robin. \'93we\'92re not trains you know.\'94 he added defensively.\
\'93I\'92ll just mark off on the maps where you are meant to be hour by hour, so you know where you are meant to be.\'94 said June, as if this was the thing that would make the mission work.\
Toby held up his hands, \'93June, brilliant idea, but we\'92ve got a couple of hours before dinner roll call, couldn\'92t you do it now?\'94\
\'93Maybe.\'94 she said, her arms folded tightly across her chest.\
\'93What if I helped?\'94 offered Toby.\
\'93Honestly, you\'92d just slow me down.\'94 said June. \'93Oh allright, I\'92ll have it done by seven tonight.\'94\
\'93Thanks June.\'94 said Miles, \'93You\'92re a brick.\'94 This praise bought a smile to June\'92s face. Toby was beginning to wonder if Miles had some kind of secret power over the girls, both Esme and June seemed to be in awe of Miles. Only Vera seemed to be holding out.\
\'93Let\'92s get ready then.\'94 said Vera. \'93Dark clothes and warm clothes. Two pairs of shoes and socks, one for the drains and one for the walking. I\'92ll get some sandwiches and cake into a rucksack.\'94 She left the room immediately, heading for the kitchen. June picked up the drain map and her A-Z atlas and left as well, no doubt heading up to her classroom to do her work.\
Toby looked at Robin. \'93Do we have any money we could take Robin, just in case?\'94 \
Robin nodded, \'93We have near enough to five pounds in reserve, we should take that.\'94\
\'93All of it?\'94 asked Esme, shocked.\
\'93All of it.\'94 said Robin. \'93You never know what we might need to spend it on.\'94\
\'93I agree.\'94 said Miles. \'93I can get some more from my parents I suspect. We might be able to save a lot of time if we can get a Taxi back across London.\'94\
\'93A taxi?\'94 asked Toby. \'93Won\'92t they find it odd to be ferrying five children across London in the small hours?\'94\
\'93It\'92s possible.\'94 agreed Miles. \'93I think that father will know someone who might be friendly, that won\'92t give us away. He knows an awful lot of people.\'94\
\'93Good.\'94 said Toby. \'93Let\'92s take all the money, we don\'92t have to spend it. You\'92re in charge of it Robin.\'94\
Robin nodded and he left too with Phillip, who said he was going to have a sleep, to get his strength up for the night\'92s work.\
This left Toby, Esme and Miles alone in the parlour. Miles looked from one to the other of the twins. \'93I\'92m sorry I didn\'92t believe you, but it a remarkable thing you know.\'94\
Esme laughed, \'93You\'92re forgiven. But please don\'92t tell anyone else will you?\'94\
\'93No.\'94 said Miles, \'93No of course I won\'92t.\'94\
\'93So tonight\'85\'94 said Toby, \'93Do you think it will work out?\'94\
\'93If my father knows everything and everybody. If he doesn\'92t know about any resistance network, and how to find them, then they don\'92t exist.\'94 \
\'93Good. We have to find out if we\'92re alone in this.\'94 said Toby. \'93But I can\'92t believe that we are. There must be other people who feel like we do. There must be a way we can contribute, even stuck here in prison.\'94\
\'93But it\'92s really important we make it back without being detected.\'94 said Esme. \'93It\'92s like when we escaped from the orphanage night after night. It was useful because we knew we had a secret way of getting information that Finch didn\'92t know about.\'94\
\'93Finch.\'94 said Toby, remembering Phillip\'92s description of him late at night in the Town Hall. \'93If he finds out we have a way out the game is over.\'94 Toby looked darkly at Esme and Miles, remembering his week locked in the orphanage basement. \'93If he catches us we\'92ll all be in solitary, for the rest of time.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 A dinghy\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Phillip, Robin and Toby, using all their strength on the end of an iron crowbar, lifted the manhole cover away from the hole in the street. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Miles bobbed down with a lit candle shielded in his hands. \'93Yes, there\'92s a ladder, let\'92s go!\'94\
Miles led and one after the other they started to climb down the ladder into the pitch blackness.\
As soon as they were beneath street level Toby could hear the sound of running water. They had to climb slowly. Miles had to put out his candle so he could use his hands, so they were climbing blind, reaching down with a foot until they found a rung, and then lowering onto it. More than once Toby put his foot onto Robin\'92s hand.\
After a couple of dozen steps downwards Miles called up\'92 \'93Stop!\'94 and they all waited in the dark.\
Suddenly a light sprang in the darkness. It was an old miner\'92s lamp that Phillip had found in the house that they had raided weeks ago. It worked with a wick and calcium carbide, a common chemical you could buy in the chemist and which Robin had bought. A reservoir of water dripped onto the chemical and gave off a gas that lit up into an intense light. It was the same way that lights in the theatre were done before electricity became common, called lime-light. \
Toby had to shield his eyes from the suddenness of it as Miles turned it up into the shaft. \
\'93Not in our eyes!\'94 shouted Robin.\
\'93Sorry old man.\'94 said Miles. \
Miles flicked the light back down again and after a few seconds looking round shouted up again, \'93It\'92s safe to come down now.\'94\
One by one they climbed down into the light. The bottom of the ladder was six feet above the bottom of the drain beneath and they had to hang from its lowest rung and drop down onto the brick floor of the drain. The drain was built like a shallow vault, about ten feet wide with an arched roof. A thin trickle of water, about as much as you might get from a bathroom tap, was snaking in and out of the brick. It was cold and damp down here in the everlasting light. No sunlight came down here and the bricks were slimy. It would be easy to take a fall.\
Once they were all down Robin took out the sketch map that June had made them and pointed off to the right. \'93That way.\'94\
\'93No.\'94 said Toby, \'93It\'92s that way isn\'92t it?\'94\
\'93Not according to the map.\'94 said Robin, holding it up in the lamp light.\
\'93But the water will be flowing downhill won\'92t it? And don\'92t we want to go that way, towards the canal?\'94 asked Toby.\
They all stood looking at each other. No one had thought about orienting themselves once they were in the drains.\
\'93Well which was is north then?\'94 asked Robin. \
Miles, Toby, Phillip and Vera all pointed in different directions.\
\'93Brilliant.\'94 said Robin, \'93five minutes and we\'92re totally lost.\'94\
\'93Hold on.\'94 muttered Phillip, rummaging in his pocket. He pulled out a small compass and held it into the light.\
It turned out Robin was right, they had to go back up against the flowing water. It didn\'92t feel right to Toby, but he followed along anyway.\
After walking for what felt like ages but according to the map was only a hundred yards they reached a junction space. A dozen drains all came together into a large space, about as big as the inside of a house. Miles shone his light up into the ceiling, it must have been thirty or more feet high. At one end all the drains came in and at the other a single, much larger tunnel, carried the water off. Although the water entering from the small drains were only trickles, the resulting flow of water was ankle deep. Because the space was so large the sound of the running water chased around the brick and it was difficult to hear someone talk.\uc0\u8232 \'93Chalk.\'94 said Toby, holding out his hand to Vera. He had to repeat himself, shouting, before Vera dropped a stick of tailor\'92s chalk into his hand. These were harder than classroom chalks and would survive the damp better. Toby drew big arrows on either side of the tunnel they had just come out of so they could find their way back.\
After this was done Robin pointed them down the large tunnel. \'93Half a mile that way.\'94 he said.\
They skirted around the side of the chamber and into the large tunnel. By keeping to one side of it they could stay out of the water, at least as they started walking. But every hundred yards or so another drain would join from the side and the water would get deeper and come further up the floor.\
Eventually there was no way to avoid it, they had to step into the water.\
Vera shrieked with the cold. Robin shhhed her, but then did the same when he stepped in. Toby laughed, but when he waded in he had to clamp his jaw down very tight to stop himself crying out - it was like stepping into a bucket of ice.\
After a couple of minutes wading Toby couldn\'92t feel his feet anymore. There was nothing for it but to put it to the back of your mind and keep moving forward. No one spoke for the next twenty minutes, the five of them just waded down the gentle slope of the tunnel which, according to June\'92s map, was taking them right under the High Street, right under the market, and down towards another junction. Miles went first, his stab of bright light sweeping along the water on the floor of the tunnel. Toby followed close behind, with Vera behind him, then Robin and Phillip bringing up the rear.\
Suddenly Toby felt himself slip forward. Reaching out he steadied himself on the wall and called out \'93Careful! Stop!\'94\
Miles shone the light down on the floor. He turned back to the others and shouted, \'93The tunnel is getting steeper, we must be close to the next chamber.\'94\
It was scary. The steepness meant that the water was running faster and Toby could feel it pulling at his ankles. If you slipped now you could slide for ages on your bottom into the dark and end up who knows where.\
\'93Miles!\'94 Vera called out and pointed to the wall. Shining his light on it they could all see large wooden handles set into the wall. Seems like they weren\'92t the only ones who found this difficult. \
\'93Me first.\'94 said Phillip as he walked to the front of the group. \'93Shine your light down there.\'94 he told Miles.\
Carefully going hand over hand by the wall Phillip descended out of sight. After a couple of minutes there was a shout upwards.\
\'93What did he say?\'94 said Miles.\
\'93Everything OK.\'94 said Vera doubtfully. \'93Doesn\'92t look ok to me.\'94\
\'93Try this.\'94 said Robin, holding out a loop of rope.\
\'93Good idea Robin.\'94 said Toby, and held the loop low down so Vera could step into it. Vera put her hand on Toby\'92s shoulder to steady herself as she stepped into it. Her teeth were chattering. She looked at him and gave him a weak smile.\
\'93We won\'92t let go, we\'92re the Walthamstow Reds, remember?\'94 he said, trying to be as upbeat as he could. \
She nodded and, grabbing the handles, started to make her way down the slope.\
Eventually all five of them made their way down, stepping into the rope loop one by one. It was slow going, but there was no point rushing and getting hurt at this point, it would be really difficult to get someone with a broken ankle back out of here.\
Toby went last and when he got to the bottom he saw the most amazing sight. This chamber was much bigger than the previous one. It was like a small, enclosed lake. They were stood on a steel walkway that you could see right through, down onto the water some twenty feet below. The drain they had come down was the largest and, luckily for them, seemed to be the way that workmen came down. All around the chamber the walls were pierced with dozens of small drains at various heights, water continually falling in around the edges of the lake. The building work was really elaborate, with pillars coming up out of the lake and arches and vaulted ceilings.\
\'93It\'92s like a drowned church.\'94 shouted Vera.\
Toby nodded, that was exactly what it was like, a drowned and buried church. He knew that the Victorians took their engineering very seriously but he didn\'92t know they did things like this. \
Not that they had time to spend gawking at it. \'93Where do we go next?\'94 he shouted to Miles.\
Miles directed the light to the opposite end of the chamber, picking out a single dark arch in amongst the columns. The arch was high, but the floor was completely flooded.\
Robin had already tied one of his shoes to the bottom of the rope and was lowering it into the water. The shoe went a long way down before Robin stopped. \'93At least eight feet deep.\'94\
\'93Dead end.\'94 said Toby, trying not to sound as defeated as he felt.\
\'93Not quite.\'94 said Miles and he shone his light a different way, under another run of arches.\
His light caught on something white.\
\'93A dinghy?!\'94 said Toby.\
\'93I think the people who look after the canal must keep it here, out of sight.\'94 said Miles. \'93That tunnel must connect directly to the canal, that explains why the water in here is so deep, it\'92s an extension of the canal itself.\'94\
\'93But there\'92s no way to it.\'94 said Vera.\
At that moment Phillip started taking off his top.\
\'93What are you doing?\'94 Robin asked him.\
\'93Swimming.\'94 said Phillip.\
Vera put her hands out to stop him. \'93You\'92ll freeze.\'94 \
\'93That\'92s why I have to do it.\'94 said Phillip, \'93I\'92ve got the fat, I\'92ll last longer.\'94\
Toby turned to him. \'93You really don\'92t have to Phillip, no one will mind.\'94\
\'93I will.\'94 said Phillip, standing there in his pants. \'93Now out of my way.\'94\
Phillip climbed over the railings and stood there for a second, his white skin flaring in the light of the torch, before he jumped.\
Amazingly he didn\'92t scream when he came up, but started to swim towards the dinghy. He made a lot of chuffing and yelping noises, but within a couple of minutes he was hauling himself over the side of the dinghy. A couple more and he was rowing back towards them, looking very pleased with himself.\
When the dinghy touched the side of the platform they were standing on they all cheered him. Vera handed him one of the towels she had bought with her but he was too cold and rigid to use it, so she started vigorously rubbing him down, bringing some colour back to his skin.\
\'93Come on then.\'94 said Toby, climbing down into the dinghy with a clatter, \'93No time to lose.\'94 \
Soon they were rowing towards the tunnel. According to the map it wasn\'92t very long, maybe fifty yards, and then it would come out on the Lea Valley Canal. Miles kept the light pointing dead ahead as Phillip rowed the boat along the broad tunnel. There was six feet clear either side of his oars.\
At first Toby didn\'92t even notice that they had emerged from the tunnel. The sky was very dark - a thick layer of cloud hid the moon. But the next time Miles scanned around with his light it disappeared up.\
\'93We are out!\'94 said Miles.\
The walls continued on though and it wasn\'92t for another couple of minutes that they found themselves at a dead end. In front of them was tall cast iron grille. Water could pass through it but they certainly couldn\'92t. There was a gate in the grille, but it was padlocked.\
Robin was first to his feet and he quickly managed to scale the grill by wedging his feet into the gaps and stepping up. \
\'93We\'92re next to the canal.\'94 he called down, \'93It\'92s safe. I think.\'94\
Robin made a rope ladder and rung it off the top of the grille and soon they stood on the bank of the Lea Canal. Behind them were the Walthamstow marshes, in front of them the canal and then London proper started. \
Toby looked his watch. Half past nine already. He realised they were running very late. \'93We are an hour behind schedule.\'94 he whispered, \'93Let\'92s get a dry pair of shoes on and then we\'92d better walk as quick as we can.\'94\
\'93An hour behind?!\'94 said Robin. \'93We need to cut across town then, we can\'92t play it safe.\'94\
\'93What?\'94 said Toby. \'93June planned this route so we had the least chance of being spotted. Five children running around after dark in central London? The germans will pick us up in a minute.\'94\
Miles looked at Toby, a twinkle in his eye. \'93That\'92s where June is wrong.\'94 he said, \'93If we are careful we\'92ll be fine.\'94\
He said it like they were going on a country stroll not crossing occupied London by night. \
Miles continued, \'93Once we get over towards Angel I know all the roads from their home.\'94\
\'93And getting to Angel shouldn\'92t be too hard.\'94 said Robin. \'93I\'92ve been studying the map, we can cross over by Springfield park, then past the reservoirs and Finsbury Park. We\'92ll make up half an hour at least.\'94\
Toby looked at Vera and Phillip. They didn\'92t return his gaze. They didn\'92t want to be disloyal to Toby, he could see that, but they also thought that Robin was right.\
\'93OK.\'94 he said, \'93Let\'92s get on with it then, Robin you lead.\'94\
A minute later they were crossing the black mirror of the canal on a clanky cast iron foot bridge and setting off into the darkness of Springfield Park.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 London\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 For the first hour of walking London looked very much like Walthamstow. Lots of two-storey houses, a pub on every corner, small runs of local shops, tram tracks, railway lines.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Every now and then a car with Nazi flags flying would drive past, but no one so much as looked at them. Toby realised that Miles and Robin were right. As far as most people cared they were just five friends walking home together. There were other groups of children around, some kicking a football around, some just sitting talking on street corners. Older children sat on low walls and sang and made loud rude jokes as they passed. Robin would shoot a funny comment back and they would laugh and wave them on their way.\
Toby felt himself relaxing and enjoying himself. It was nice to see a different part of London and realise that people and children were getting on with living. No one looked terrified. No one looked hungry. People looked normal.\
So when Robin spat \'93Hide!\'94 at him in a tense whisper Toby took a second to remember what they were doing. Up ahead Toby could see a set of headlights moving slowly, and alongside it a dozen German soldiers walking up the street. A patrol. Suddenly the street was empty.\
Toby looked around him. They were just passing a row of shops. There was a narrow dark passageway that ran between a butchers and a newsagent. \
\'93In here.\'94 hissed Toby and the five of them scuttled into the darkness and down towards the end of the passage.\
It ended in two locked doors. There was no way out. Turning back Toby could clearly see the street. \
\'93Somewhere else!\'94 said Toby, trying to keep the panic out his voice, \'93They can see right in here.\'94\
\'93Too late.\'94 said Phillip.\
\'93Crunch down together, all of you.\'94 said Vera, \'93I\'92ll make you look like a pile of rubbish.\'94\
The boys all got down on the ground and rolled themselves into balls. Looking out into the road Toby could see the advancing headlights.\
\'93Good!\'94 said Vera. \'93Toby keep your face down!\'94\
Toby turned his face away from the road, and felt Vera place a damp towel over him and then hunker down right next to him.\
\'93Keep very still.\'94 she whispered to them all.\
It was hard not to look, to just lie there and wait for something to happen. The German voices and the ticking-chug of the diesel truck both got louder. A bright beam of light licked briefly down the passage and onto them, but it didn\'92t stop and a couple of seconds later the patrol passed.\
\'93Five more minutes. Just to be sure.\'94 whispered Toby, looking at his watch. \
Five minutes didn\'92t sound like a long time, but because they had just thrown themselves on top of each other they were like a jumbled box of toys, all angles and edges. Soon everyone was groaning with discomfort, but Toby made them stay the full five minutes before letting them up. Toby\'92s leg was completely dead and he had to walk up and down the alleyway wincing until the feeling came back.\
\'93Right everyone, well done.\'94 said Miles, pulling them all back together. \'93I guess we have to be more careful now.\'94\
\'93How far is it?\'94 asked Vera.\
\'93We\'92re nearly at King\'92s Cross Station.\'94 said Miles, \'93Into the city itself.\'94\
The way he said \'91into the city\'92 made Toby nervous. To take his mind off it he opened the top of his pack and pulled out a small paper bag, \'93Chocolate biscuit anyone?\'94\
*\'a0\
It was midnight as they got to King\'92s Cross Station. They came to the station from a side street and it was so brightly lit it looked like a wall of fire. \
As they got closer Toby could see that it was still busy. Cars and trucks jostled for a parking places in front of it, german soldiers and Londoners milled around together, coming in and out of the doorways in an endless stream. \
Suddenly Miles stopped, \'93Look over there.\'94 he whispered.\
At the corner of the main station was a watch tower, just like one from their prison. \
\'93What shall we do?\'94 asked Phillip.\
\'93Ignore it.\'94 said Robin. \'93Just walk under it, wave to the soldiers, look like we\'92re out on the town.\'94\
\'93Pretend we\'92re proper teenagers!\'94 said Vera, \'93I can do that.\'94\
Miles looked back at the tower. \'93Yes Vera, I think you are right.\'94\
\'93We\'92re twelve,\'94 said Toby, \'93we\'92re not going to pass for eighteen.\'94\
\'93Sixteen will do it.\'94 said Robin. \'93Wait here.\'94 Robin darted ahead before anyone could ask him what he was up to.\
As they waited Toby looked at the station closer. After a couple of minutes he could see different types of people. There were the German soldiers, most of whom were lugging big duffel bags. They must have been heading out on troop trains to other parts of the country. Perhaps they had been down on leave, letting off steam in The Big Smoke. Then there were civilian travellers, people trying to get out of the station as quickly as they could. Some carried their own bags, others had porters, all of them waved to the stream of Taxis that waited up the road. Among the passengers there were other people too, some were offering their help to people or soldiers, hoping for a small tip. They weren\'92t dressed very well. Toby had read in the papers that lots of people slept rough in the parks around Kings Cross, people who couldn\'92t find a job, or who had gone a bit mad. There were well-dressed people hanging around too though, people who looked like they took care of themselves. Perhaps they were \'91swells\'92, people who tricked the unwary out of their money.\
Robin thrust out his hand. In it were cigarettes. \'93There we go.\'94 he said, \'93How to look older.\'94 He popped one in his mouth. Toby thought he looked ridiculous.\
Miles thought otherwise, \'93Great idea Robin.\'94\
\'93Disgusting.\'94 said Toby, remembering the nicotine stains on Finch\'92s fingers.\
\'93You don\'92t have to light them even.\'94 said Robin. \'93No one will notice.\'94\
\'93They\'92re German.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93I had to buy them off someone.\'94 said Robin.\
\'93Let\'92s get on with it shall we?\'94 said Miles, plucking one of the cigarettes off Robin\'92s hand. Robin offered them round. Vera took one, and Phillip, but Toby shook his head. \'93I\'92ll be the sensible one.\'94 he said.\
Robin started to walk down the middle of the pavement, like he was the King of England. \'93Come on! Don\'92t forget to have fun!\'94 and said, letting out a gale of fake sounding laughter.\
Toby sighed and followed him. \
As they came around the front of the station and under the watch tower, laughing and repeating some of the rude jokes they had heard earlier, Toby could see that the front of the station was hung with Nazi flags.\
They picked their way through the people at the front of the station fine. Toby saw a few of the swells looking at them, maybe thinking they could make some money off them, but they kept talking and walking, not giving anyone a chance to slow them down. And in five minutes they were clear of the station. \
\'93Down here.\'94 said Miles and he led them all off the Euston Road and onto quiet streets just a block away from the main road.\
They were quiet again now, aware that they were moving through areas of housing. It was strange to see that people weren\'92t bothering with black-out curtains anymore - and why should they? It wasn\'92t like anyone was hiding from the germans anymore. Toby could see into apartments as they passed. Some front rooms were brightly lit with colourful lamps and crystal chandeliers. The rooms seemed huge to Toby and were richly furnished - heavy silk curtains and large sofas with fitted carpets and rugs. Toby wondered how anyone kept them clean. Then he remembered that they had two things that they didn\'92t have - servants and vacuum cleaners.\
Toby could see Vera doing the same as him. She would know what the fabrics were and how much it all cost, she was the one who read the home sections of the papers everyday. He tapped her on the shoulder and smiled.\
\'93Look at that!\'94 she whispered, stopping Toby and pointing into a particularly ornate front room.\
\'93What do you call that?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93It\'92s called Chinoiserie.\'94 said Vera, proud of her knowledge, \'93It means in the Chinese style. Look, you can see the Chinese dragons.\'94\
Toby peered into the room and sure enough there were dragons everywhere. They were big too, one took up a whole wall. It was silver and twisted in on itself like a coiling garden hose. A bright orange flame jetted out of its mouth.\
\'93Scary.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93No.\'94 said Vera, \'93It\'92s good luck.\'94\
From up ahead Robin hissed, \'93Come on you two, we\'92re not sightseeing, we\'92ve got a job to do.\'94\
Toby thought it was odd to be told to behave by Robin, but he did as he was told. They did have a job to do.\
Once they had caught up with Miles, Robin and Phillip, Toby asked how long it would take to get to Miles\'92 house.\
\'93Ten minutes.\'94 said Miles.\
\'93It\'92s nearly one in the morning.\'94 said Toby, \'93We need to keep on schedule.\'94\
\'93I know!\'94 snapped Miles. Toby looked at him in surprise, he\'92s never seen Miles like this.\
\'93Sorry.\'94 said Miles, \'93It\'92s just that\'85 you know.\'94\
Toby had never seen Miles caught short for words before either. But of course he was tense, he was going to see his parents for the first time in months.\
\'93It\'92s all right Miles, we\'92re all here.\'94 said Vera, picking up on Mile\'92s nerves too.\
\'93Thank you.\'94 he said, smiling. \'93This is my neighbourhood, where I grew up.\'94\
Miles turned out onto the high street then. It was empty now, but it was lined with small shops and as they walked down the street Toby could see that they were full of beautiful and expensive things. Fashion shops that had Vera\'92s mouth hanging open, furniture stores with gold-gilded chairs in the windows. Even the food shops had brands with royal crests on them.\
It was a strange place to grow up. There was nowhere to run, no grass or cows or allotments or anything like that. But what there was a lot of was money.\
They turned off the high street and onto a square.\
\'93We\'92re here.\'94 said Miles, standing in front of a massive double-fronted townhouse that went up at least four stories.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Panic\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 \'93You have to get out, right now!\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 The man who said this was standing in the downstairs kitchen of Miles\'92 house. You could tell he was Mile\'92s dad. He was tall and blonde and had the same look of cultivated intelligence. He was also wearing a bright red dressing gown that made him look like father Christmas. A very angry father Christmas.\
Next to him stood Mile\'92s mother. She was a complete contrast, small and dark, with a sculpted wave of dark hair hanging over one side of her face, which was white with shock. Shock and fear.\
Miles stood looking at them, dumbfounded. \
No one had expected this. Toby had been half hoping for a cup of tea and some nice biscuits, but they hadn\'92t been so much as offered a seat or a hello before Mr Abercrombie started to push them out the door. He hadn\'92t even give Miles so much as hug. What was wrong?\
\'93Go on Miles, please.\'94 said Mrs Abercrombie.\
\'93We need to talk.\'94 said Miles, spreading his arms to include the Walthamstow Reds. \'93We\'92ve all come to talk.\'94 \
Mr Abercrombie looked at them. He didn\'92t seem to be impressed by what he saw, \'93Who are these children? Who are you mixing with these days?\'94 he asked, snottily.\
\'93These children risked their lives to get me here!\'94 said Miles, flushing with anger. \'93They\'92re my friends.\'94\
\'93Then they\'92re as stupid as you are!\'94 spat Mr Abercrombie. \'93You\'92ve endangered the whole family by coming here. Everyone. Me, your mother, you sisters. We could all be carted off to prison. Then how would you feel you stupid, selfish boy?\'94\
Toby couldn\'92t believe what happened next. The very clever and confident Miles Abercrombie dissolved into a pile of sobs and tears. His father threw his hands up in the air and shook his head as if gravely disappointed.\
\'93Oh Gerald,\'94 said Mrs Abercrombie, \'93Now look what you\'92ve done.\'94\
Mr Abercrombie looked a little ashamed of himself and looked away from his wife. He was still fuming though.\
Anyone would think a father would be happy to see his son after so long a time, happy to see that he was alive and well.\
\'93Excuse me sir.\'94 said Toby, waving to attract Mr Abercrombie\'92s attention.\
Mr Abercrombie wouldn\'92t look at him, was still too angry to speak.\
\'93What is it?\'94 asked Mrs Abercrombie. She wasn\'92t livid like her husband, but you could tell she wasn\'92t best pleased to see a bunch of unknown children in her house.\
\'93The rest of us, the four of us, are orphans. We don\'92t have parents. And\'94\
\'93We know what orphans are - what\'92s your point boy?\'94 shouted Mr Abercrombie.\
Toby flinched. Mr Abercrombie was a sharp and dangerous. But not as dangerous as Finch. Toby took a breath and started again. \'93We have lived together in an orphanage since the day that we were born. We\'92ve never had a to parent love us, or tell us off. Mostly we\'92ve had to rely on ourselves for company and encouragement. We haven\'92t even really met other children from Walthamstow. They never wanted to talk to us. It was like we would make people sick if they talked to us.\'94\
Mr Abercrombie was looking at him with impatience. \'93There\'92s plenty of your type in London.\'94\
\'93There are, yes.\'94 said Toby, \'93My point is that we have decided to get rid of the Germans.\'94\
Mr Abercrombie laughed, \'93You? How do you propose to do that?\'94\
Toby felt Vera\'92s hand on his arm, steading him. \'93We don\'92t know. That\'92s why we\'92ve come to you. To find people who want to do the same thing. To help. We thought you, with all your friends, your position, with everything might be able to help us.\'94\
Mr Abercrombie looked at Toby strangely, like he was sizing him up. \'93What\'92s you name?\'94\
\'93Toby.\'94\
\'93That was a pretty speech Toby and I admire your resolve, but there are a couple of truths you need to understand.\'94\
\'93Yes sir?\'94\
\'93The first is that I have a lot to lose. It\'92s one thing for you to risk everything because you don\'92t have much. I have a family. A wife whom I love very much.\'94\
Mr Abercrombie pointed to Mrs Abercrombie like she were an exhibit. At the moment it was hard to imagine him loving anything apart from the sound of his own voice.\
\'93My job as head of the household, is to protect my charges, my family. That is my first duty. My country comes second.\'94\
\'93But\'85\'94 Toby started to interject, but Mr Abercrombie raised his finger to silence him.\
\'93And even if I did have some plan to get rid of the Germans I would not be divulging any part of it, or any of the people involved in it, to a group of children, do I make myself clear?\'94\
\'93Perfectly.\'94 said Toby, tersely.\
Mr Abercrombie dropped his finger, like he was dismissing a junior. \'93So you need to leave, all of you. Now.\'94 He looked at them one by one, finally settling on Miles, who had managed to stop crying. Mr Abercrombie sighed and a little of the anger dropped from his face.\
\'93Miles, I am sorry your journey has been wasted. It was good to see you.\'94 \
And with that Mr Abercrombie turned to go.\
\'93One more thing!\'94 Toby called out to stop him.\
\'93What?!\'94\
\'93Your son has been a great support and friend to us. He is a credit to you sir.\'94\
Mr Abercrombie stayed turned away, like he couldn\'92t bear to look at his son. \'93Thank you for saying that. He is a good boy. He means well.\'94 Abercrombie wrapped his dressing gown around himself and stepped out of the kitchen, leaving them alone with Mrs Abercrombie.\
As soon as her husband left the room she rushed across to Miles and wrapped him up in her arms, kissing the top of his head like he was a baby.\
\'93It\'92s so good to see you!\'94 she said. \
Miles started to laugh.\
\'93Never mind father, you know what he\'92s like. You know he loves you a great deal, he can just never show it.\'94\
Miles nodded. \'93I know, but I thought he might help us.\'94\
\'93His hands are tied Miles, he can\'92t do anything.\'94\
\'93Is he doing something that he can\'92t tell us about?\'94 asked Miles.\
Mrs Abercrombie looked at Miles, then at all the children. \'93No.\'94 she said, though it was clear that she was hinting that the real answer was yes, \'93Your father is doing nothing at all against the germans, and neither should you be. Is that clear?\'94\
Toby felt weird, like there was something going on that he didn\'92t understand. The air was prickly with awareness.\
\'93Yes mother.\'94 nodded Miles. \'93I would never do anything against the germans.\'94\
\'93That\'92s my boy.\'94 she said, \'93now would you like a cup of tea before you go?\'94\
Robin said \'93I don\'92t think we have time Mrs Abercrombie. We have to get Miles back by seven or they will know that he is missing.\'94\
\'93Don\'92t worry about that.\'94 she said, \'93We will work something out.\'94\
Five minutes later they were sitting around the kitchen table drinking smooth, rich tea out of expensively decorated china, with Mrs Abercrombie asking Miles all manner of questions about his life inside Stalag E17.\
They would have kept talking all night too if Toby hadn\'92t alerted Miles to the time. 2:30am.\
Reluctantly Miles drained his tea cup. His mother tucked some money in one pocket and a packet of biscuits in the other. Toby could see that she was being brave, but she was on the edge of tears the whole time. She was the one who held their family together.\
Soon the Walthamstow Reds were ready to go. Miles started to lead them out the kitchen the back way, and as they left Mrs Abercrombie gave them each a hug. Toby couldn\'92t remember ever having a hug from an adult, so it was a weird experience. Suddenly he was enveloped in her perfume, a delicate botanical smell, like figs and warm apples, but nicer. Then a kiss on both cheeks and she whispered in his ear, \'93You\'92re a good boy, take care of him won\'92t you?\'94 \
He nodded, though he had no idea if he could take care of Miles.\
Out the back of the town house there as a big shiny black car, it\'92s engine ticking over smoothly. In the dark it looked like a block of solid oil. \
Miles opened and door and they all piled into the back before he closed it and jumped in the front. The back seat was so big all four of them could sit comfortably.\
\'93Come on everyone,\'94 said a voice from the front, \'93Time for the Lea Valley express.\'94 The accent was pure East End.\
\'93Thanks Charlie, you didn\'92t have to.\'94 said Miles.\
Charlie gave a crackly laugh, \'93Oh yes I did, got to help the effort where I can.\'94\
Toby wondered what he meant by that, but before he could think about it too much the car started forward. It was so smooth that it barely felt like they were moving. \
\'93Won\'92t the car be seen?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93The Boss goes in and out to the paper at all times of the night. We got special plates. No one blinks.\'94 said Charlie.\
They drove on in silence for five minutes, coming to rest at a traffic light as they crossed a main road.\
Toby heard one of the car doors click open. Looking over he saw Robin letting himself out of the car.\
\'93Robin?!\'94 said Vera, who was sitting next to him, \'93What are you doing? She reached out to grab him.\
\'93Don\'92t mind me, I\'92ll be back by lunchtime.\'94\
And before anyone could do anything Robin had closed the door behind him, slipped across the street and disappeared into the shadows.\
They all sat stunned. What on earth could Robin be doing in the middle of the night in central London? It didn\'92t make any sense. \
\'93What was that?\'94 asked Toby. \'93anyone know?\'94. They all looked at each other hoping that Robin had confided in them. But no one knew anything.\
\'93What should I do Miles, do you want to find the little bugger?\'94 asked Charlie.\
\'93No.\'94 said Toby, \'93He\'92s crafty, we\'92ll never find him now, best stick to the plan.\'94\
\'93Right you are.\'94 said Charlie. The car grumbled for a second, then started to glide across the intersection, back towards Walthamstow. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Getting back\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 The four of them stood by the Lea Canal, right where they had left the dinghy. It was still there. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 \'93It\'92s three in the morning.\'94 said Toby. \'93We\'92ve got four hours to get you back. It only took us two hours to get this far, so we\'92re making good time.\'94\
\'93Good work everyone.\'94 said Miles, handing around the biscuits his mother had given them. \'93I\'92m sorry it didn\'92t work out.\'94\
Phillip, who had barely spoken all night, asked Miles the question that they all wanted to know the answer to, \'93You said he would be in touch with the resistance. You said he would make sure we connected with them, that we could do something.\'94\
Miles hung his head, \'93I know, I\'92m sorry. Total failure all round.\'94\
\'93I don\'92t think so.\'94 said Toby, \'93I think they are involved. Remember what Charlie said, about helping where he could?\'94\
\'93That was odd.\'94 agreed Vera.\
\'93But if that\'92s true then why didn\'92t they say so?\'94 asked Miles.\
Toby took another biscuit and was about to say something, but Vera got in before him.\
\'93Because your father was telling you the truth. They have a lot to lose if anyone finds out they are helping the resistance don\'92t they?\'94\
Miles nodded. \'93They have everything to lose.\'94 he confirmed.\
\'93Even you.\'94 She looked at Miles, \'93They were trying to keep you safe.\'94 \
Miles looked startled. \
\'93Wouldn\'92t you do the same?\'94 she asked.\
\'93I would do exactly the same thing.\'94 he replied, quietly.\
\'93So there you are. Your father might have been horrible to us, but he is trying to keep you safe. Being bad for a good reason.\'94\
Miles looked like he was going to cry again. \'93I\'92m just sorry I dragged you all out on this wild goose chase.\'94 He looked at Phillip, \'93And you being ill for days to get the plans.\'94\
\'93Don\'92t worry about me.\'94 said Phillip smiling, \'93I\'92ve had a great time!\'94 \
\'93So far.\'94 said Toby. \'93We\'92ve still got to get back in.\'94\
\'93It\'92ll be a walk in the park Toby.\'94 said Phillip as he started to climb back down towards the dinghy.\
\
\
\
As they scrambled one by one back down to the dinghy Toby sent out a thought to Esme, to see if she was listening.\

\i Esme, are you there?
\i0 \

\i Been here all along brother.
\i0 \
He gave her a quick run-down of events so far that night. She was really worried about Robin. 
\i What is he up to? He\'92ll go and get himself in some kind of terrible trouble.
\i0 \

\i I know. I know I should be angry but I\'92m just worried.
\i0 \

\i Me too. Still, he always has a way of surprising us doesn\'92t he?
\i0 \

\i Let\'92s hope so Esme.\
Now hurry up and get back here will you?
\i0 \

\i Sure will.
\i0  \
Once they had settled in the dinghy Phillip gently rowed them back up the canal and then towards the darkness of the tunnel.\
\'93Who\'92s got the torch then?\'94 asked Phillip.\
Toby groaned. \
There was a moment\'92s silence. \'93Please tell me what I am thinking isn\'92t true Toby.\'94 said Phillip, stopping rowing.\
\'93On no.\'94 said Miles, \'93Robin\'92s got the torch?\'94\
\'93Robin has the torch.\'94 confirmed Toby.\
They all checked their rucksacks just to make sure but it was no good. They had no light and no way of seeing in the pitch black of the tunnels.\
\'93Could we feel our way along?\'94 asked Miles.\
\'93We chalked up the right tunnels so we could see which ones to take back in the dark. How will we see them without a light?\'94\
They all sat for a minute in the silence. The mood was grim and everyone was looking at their feet, lost in their private doubts. \
Toby looked up at the stars. He could see the spread of soft points of light above him. He remembered the last time he was in a real bind, when he was stuck in solitary - how had he got through that? He remembered reading the stories in the Bible, about people not losing hope, about Jonah in the Whale, and Daniel in the lion\'92s den. There must be a way through this, the key was not to lose hope.\
\'93Let\'92s sing a song.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93What?!\'94 said Phillip, \'93Now?\'94\
\'93Yes now.\'94 said Toby, looking at Vera, who just laughed. It felt good to make her laugh, to turn the situation around with humour.\
\'93All right,\'94 she said, \'93what shall we sing?\'94\
\'93Amazing Grace.\'94 said Miles. \'93We all know that one I daresay.\'94\
No one objected. \
Vera, who had a great singing voice, sang the first verse and then they all joined in singing strongly together until they all forgot the words and then they were just laughing together.\
Before they could think too much about the difficulty they were in Toby spoke, \'93Right then, how are we going to get back in, one idea each.\'94\
\'93Morning delivery trucks.\'94 said Miles immediately, \'93We jump on them as they go into the Town Hall in the morning.\'94\
\'93Good.\'94 said Toby, \'93Phillip?\'94\
\'93Get the others to create a diversion - an explosion or something inside the prison, so that we can sneak through a gate.\'94\
\'93Vera.\'94\
Vera looked around her for a moment. \'93I don\'92t know. Maybe we just climb over the wall. They\'92re not expecting anyone to break in are they?\'94\
\'93Good point.\'94 said Toby. \
\'93What\'92s your idea Toby?\'94 asked Phillip.\
\'93Go back over the canal, break into someone\'92s house and steal some candles.\'94\
\'93How do we decide?\'94 asked Miles.\
\'93The simplest plan, one that we can do now, one with the least chance of getting caught.\'94 said Vera.\
\'93That\'92s your plan.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93Is it?\'94 asked Vera.\
\'93Toby is right.\'94 said Miles, \'93My plan is too risky and we would have to wait until morning. Toby\'92s plan is fine, but even if we had candles the tunnels would still be incredibly risky without steady light. A diversion is a good idea but there\'92s no guarantee that sentries would leave their posts. And like Toby says, no one is expecting anyone to break into the prison.\'94\
\'93That\'92s it then.\'94 said Phillip.\
\'93Good.\'94 Said Toby, \'93I think I know the right place, but we\'92re going to need some things, we\'92ll have to pick them up as we walk up through Walthamstow.\'94\
\
\
They climbed out of the dinghy and walked for ten minutes over the Walthamstow marshes, towards the lane that run up through the reservoirs and turned into to High Street, the street that the market was on. It was very cold on the marshes and they found themselves walking quickly to keep warm. \
As they walked Toby spoke to Esme, telling her what had happened and what they were going to do. She didn\'92t like it, not one bit. She was furious at Robin 
\i that selfish little boy
\i0  she called him. Toby agreed but there was no point in getting mad about it, they had to stay positive and solve the problem. \
Esme said she would go out and wait for them. Toby could tell her where they were going to come over and she could tell them if it was safe. Toby didn\'92t want her going out, but he needed her to be his eyes, so he agreed.\
Soon they came to the first houses. Toby held up his hand to stop them and whispered in Phillip\'92s ear. Phillip nodded and headed off down a street while the others kept watch. Five minutes later Phillip came back with a couple of long clotheslines coiled up under his arm.\
They kept going up the street. Down here, in Lower Walthamstow, outside the prison, the houses and shops looked as they always had. There was no one around, everyone was asleep, but the shops had window displays and there were signs of life all over the place - rubbish bins out on the street, bikes leaning against fences, old newspapers in piles tied up with strings. It was very different from inside the prison walls and it made Toby long for a return to normality. Wouldn\'92t it be great to stay outside the prison? He knew he couldn\'92t, there were too many children relying on him, but for a moment he enjoyed the thought of one day being free again.\
As they got higher up the main street there were more shops. Phillip stopped outside one of them and pointed in. They all clustered around the window. It was a hardware shop.\
\'93We\'92re going to need something to cut wire with.\'94 said Phillip, very quietly.\
\'93We can\'92t break into a shop!\'94 said Vera.\
\'93Everyone will hear it if we break the window.\'94 agreed Miles.\
Phillip nodded. \'93Ok then. We need a tool shed. Something well equipped.\'94\
They all looked blankly at each other.\
\'93The church has a good one, but that\'92s inside the prison walls.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93There are the plane factories on Black Horse Lane.\'94 suggested Vera.\
\'93Too far.\'94 said Phillip.\
Vera wasn\'92t happy about having her suggestion rubbished by Phillip. \'93Well I don\'92t know then!\'94 she folded her arms and pursed her lips.\
Phillip threw his hands in the air, \'93I didn\'92t mean to\'85\'94\
\'93Are there any other Churches nearby? There must be.\'94 said Miles, \'93London is covered in Churches.\'94\
\'93There\'92s one a couple of blocks North.\'94 said Toby. \'93We went there once, it\'92s in the same parish as St Mary\'92s.\'94\
\'93We sang there.\'94 said Vera, immediately forgetting to be cross. She liked singing.\
\'93So what are we waiting for?\'94 said Toby.\
Miles looked uncomfortable. \'93Are you seriously suggesting that we steal from a church?\'94 he asked.\
Toby looked at Phillip and Vera. They weren\'92t looking worried about it. \'93It\'92s that or get tangled up in some barbed wire and get shot at by Germans.\'94 said Toby, turning and walking away from them, leading them off the high street and into the shadowy streets beyond.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Roof\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 It had taken them half an hour to find the church then lever open the caretaker\'92s garden shed. They had been lucky though and found two pairs of pliers. Toby picked up a hacksaw too, just in case. After that they had carefully approached one of the row of terrace houses that made up part of the prison wall. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Toby knew from the pain-staking work he had helped June with on the map that this piece of the wall was between two of the watch towers and that there was an angle in the terraces that meant that the two watch towers could both see into the streets in front of them, but they couldn\'92t see this corner on the outside of the wall. \

\i I\'92m on XXX road
\i0  said Toby to Esme.\
A moment, then 
\i June say\'92s that\'92s good, but you\'92ll have to be careful when you come down. They will have to point their searchlights right down the street to see you, so don\'92t make any noise.
\i0 \

\i I wasn\'92t planning to!
\i0  said Toby.\

\i Sorry
\i0  said Esme, 
\i good luck!
\i0 \

\i Thanks.
\i0 \
On this side of the road they were at the back of the empty houses. The first thing to do was climb over the back fence of one the houses.\
\'93Which one?\'94 asked Toby, quietly.\
Phillip shrugged, \'93Doesn\'92t matter.\'94 he said and he put his hands up onto a fence, getting ready to jump and haul himself up.\
\'93How about this one?\'94 said Vera, holding open an unlocked gate. \
\'93Good work Vera!\'94 said Miles. \
One by one they went into the back garden of the house. From here you could see the single flight of cast iron stairs that ran up to a small balcony on the first storey. They would have to find a way up onto the roof from there, they would need to climb up about 10 feet.\
Toby looked around the garden. There, in the corner, was what he was looking for. A ladder.\
He went and picked it up and, with Phillip\'92s help, he carried it up the staircase and leaned it against the side of the roof. It wasn\'92t very secure, and it felt like a long way up, but it was better than having to climb up on someone\'92s shoulders.\
Phillip steadied the ladder and Toby went to start up it, but he felt a hand on his shoulder. \'93This is my fault, let me.\'94 said Miles.\
Toby could see that Miles needed to go first, that he wanted to make good on the wasted trip, so he stepped aside. \
Miles took a deep breath and climbed the first few rungs and stopped where he could see onto the roof. Toby was about to ask him if was clear, but Miles kept going up the ladder and, with an awkward twist at the top, his legs and then feet disappeared and Toby could hear him crawling up the roof slates.\
Toby waved at Vera to come up the stairs. As she got to the top Toby could see that she was looking determined, as if she was scared but had given herself a good talking too. He knew how she felt - it was scary looking up the ladder and knowing that they had to climb over a whole house and then get away unseen by the guards. \'93Up you go then.\'94 he said, as cheerfully as he could. She smiled, pulled herself up onto the ladder and climbed straight up it and easily swung herself up onto the roof. \
Phillip nodded at Toby and he got onto the ladder. Phillip was holding it solidly, but Toby made the mistake of looking down. It seemed like a long way to the ground and it wouldn\'92t take much to slip and fall. Toby suddenly felt unsteady, like a rush of wind was tugging at him, but the feeling came from the inside.\
\'93Keep going!\'94 said Phillip from beneath him.\
Toby looked up and tried to step up but found he couldn\'92t. He was frozen. \'93I can\'92t.\'94 \
\'93One step at a time Toby, that\'92s all, one step.\'94\
\'93Ok, I\'92ll try.\'94 And he did try. He managed to get one foot up another rung, then he stepped up onto it with his other foot. By only thinking about his feet and looking at the wall in front of him he could do it.\
It was only six steps. It took forever. Eventually, huffing and puffing from the stress of it, his head came up over the top of the roof. There was a rope in front of him. Miles had strung it around a chimney and draped it down the roof tiles.\
Gratefully Toby grabbed it and pulled himself up and off the ladder and then crawled up the clinky slates to the low wall at the top of the roof where Miles and Vera were waiting.\
\'93It\'92s a bad time to find out I don\'92t like heights.\'94 he whispered.\
\'93You\'92ll be all right old boy, we\'92ll make sure of it.\'94 said Miles, slapping him on the shoulder. Toby smiled weakly.\
A minute later and Phillip was beside them.\
\'93You can see there\'92s some barbed wire on the top of the roof, but only one strand.\'94 said Miles.\
Toby could see a single curl of wire right on the apex of the roof. \'93If we stick to the wall and cut it at the big chimney\'85\'94 he said.\
Phillip nodded. \'93One by one. Slate is brittle. Try to keep your weight on the wall.\'94 \
Toby knew that slate was a special type of rock. It was made up of lots of thin layers which meant you could make thin tiles out of it, but if you stepped in the middle of one you could easily shatter it.\
Miles went first again, carefully transferring his weight from foot to foot and leaning onto the low brick wall as he went. He stopped when he got to the start of the more angled main roof and waved Vera on, then he started to carefully climb up the angled roof. \
Toby was very glad that it was Miles and not him who was climbing the roof first. Miles would loop a rope around the chimney and they could pull themselves up on it, much easier than scrambling up the tiles without any assistance.\
Toby watched Miles pop his head over the very top of the roof, then take out his pliers and start to work at the wire. \
Vera waved him over, and, with a few kind words from Phillip, Toby began the walk across the roof. It was better with a wall to hold onto, and, by concentrating on where his feet where, he could keep his mind off what would happen if he slipped and slid off the files and fell two stories onto the ground.\
Still, by the time he made it to Vera, he was sweating under his coat and his breath was ragged.\
Vera held out her hand as he got to her and he gratefully took it, not letting go when he made it to crouch beside her. They both turned and looked up to watch Miles at work, and soon enough Phillip was beside them too.\
\
\
You hear the final click as the barbed wire finally split. Miles let his end go and it slid down the roof, the sharp points of the wire grating over the smooth stone slate. For a moment no one moved - would any of the Germans have heard that? Would they have seen the wire disappear?\
Miles sat on the centre ridge of the roof and worked with the ropes. One end he slid down the rood towards them.\
\'93Me first.\'94 said Toby. \'93I don\'92t want to watch, it\'92ll just make me worse.\'94\
The others nodded and Toby grabbed the rope. Miles had put knots in the rope every couple of feet to make it easier to hold, and Toby was able to make it up without too much bother. Things were getting easier. \
But as soon as he got to the top of the roof and looked down the other side he instantly felt woozy again. The roof sloped down onto nothing but empty black air. \
Miles looked at him and smiled, \'93I cut the wire.\'94 he said proudly.\
\'91Yes. Excellent.\'94 said Toby, trying to look enthusiastic.\
\'93All we have to do is lower ourselves down on the ropes, off the edge of the roof and down onto the ground.\'94\
\'93Good.\'94 said Toby, wondering how he was going to manage it.\
\'91I\'92ll go first.\'94 said Miles, pulling on one of the ropes.\
\'93No!\'94 blurted Toby. \
Miles stopped and looked at him, \'93anything wrong?\'94\
\'93Yes should wait for the others.\'94 said Toby, \'93So they can see how it\'92s done.\'94\
Miles nodded and together they waited as first Vera then Phillip came up to join them on the roof. \
While he was waiting Toby looked back over Walthamstow towards the city. Normally you couldn\'92t see it from this high up. Walthamstow was on a gentle hill and you could see right over to Alexander Palace and down to the East End docks. The main roads were marked out in street lamps, long strings of white points of light that eventually became solid lines of light in the distance.\
Somewhere in there was Robin. What on earth was he thinking? What was he up to? It wasn\'92t like Robin to do anything without a purpose. It was very like Robin to keep something secret. He just hoped that it was something good, good for all of them.\

\i Toby!
\i0  Esme voices sprang loud and clear into his head.\

\i Better be good Esme, I\'92m about to lower myself off a roof on a clothesline
\i0 \

\i Don\'92t joke
\i0  she said, 
\i The Germans know something
\i0 \

\i What do you mean?
\i0 \

\i The lights are on at the barracks at the Girl\'92s School, tons of them are getting ready, a few have started walking.
\i0 \

\i What way are they going?
\i0 \

\i Your way, towards you
\i0 \
Toby was stunned, it could only mean one thing.\

\i Someone ratted on us?
\i0 \

\i Yes Toby, someone ratted on us. But right now you need to\'85
\i0 \

\i We need to get off this roof.
\i0 \

\i Hurry Toby!
\i0 \
Toby looked at the others.\
\'93What is it?\'94 asked Vera.\
\'93Germans, coming our way. We have to get a move on.\'94 He pointed to the rope, \'93Miles, you mustn\'92t get caught, you go first.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Down\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 Miles didn\'92t need telling twice.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 \'93Like this.\'94 he said, and showed them how to pass the rope under their arms and around their back, \'93This is how mountaineers do it.\'94\
He stood up then and leaned back onto the rope, which held his weight.\
\'93You have to keep your weight back and your body out. You use your legs to push yourselves off, then let the rope slowly run through your hands.\'94\
He started to step backwards down the roof. He made it look easy, like he\'92s done a course in it. Step by step he went down the slates towards the edge of the roof. When he got there he kept his body right out, hanging over the edge. \
With one hand he waved at them, smiled, and then lowered himself over the edge of the roof.\
Toby was expecting the worst, warning shouts or gunshots. There was nothing and a minute later the rope went slack. He was down!\
\'93You\'92re next.\'94 said Toby to Phillip, \'93Make sure Miles gets back to his house, and quickly.\'94\
Phillip nodded and wrapped the rope around himself, slower than Miles, but still confident he knew what he was doing. He stood up and leaned back on the rope. It held his weight and he stepped slowly backwards down the roof. He paused as he got to the edge, looked down and then began to disappear over the edge. After a while the rope went slack again and they heard the sound of the two boys running off into the night.\
\'93That\'92s got Miles home safe and sound.\'94 said Toby, \'93Now you.\'94 He passed the rope to Vera. She looked pale, but nodded and took the rope.\
\'93Watch me, make sure I do it right.\'94 she said.\
He nodded, \'93Don\'92t worry, I will.\'94\
Her hands were shaking as she took the rope. She draped it around herself correctly, just as Miles and Phillip had, then she very slowly leaned back on it. It held her weight and she smiled, \'93It works!\'94 \
\'93Take it easy, don\'92t rush.\'94 said Toby, even though what they needed to do was get down as fast as they can. The soldiers could only be a minute or two away.\
She stepped backwards down the rood and lowered herself over the edge, just as the others had done. \
Toby started to think about doing it himself and his hands broke out in a sweat. Wet hands wasn\'92t going to help much. He rubbed them on his coat. He was confused. He\'92d never had anything like this happen before, why now? It was unfair - wasn\'92t he brave? Didn\'92t he lead people? And here he was scared of doing something that three people had done before him.\
He has bought out of his thinking by a twanging sound. He looked up at the rope only to see it go slack on the roof. \
His first thought was that Vera had been really quick to get down. But a split second later he heard her scream.\
Vera had fallen. \
Without thinking he called out, \'93Vera!\'94\
There was few second of horrible silence. He called out again and this time there was a reply, a feeble shout. \'93Toby\'85 Toby I\'92m sorry, I think I\'92ve broken something.\'94\
\'93Ok, hold on, I\'92ll be there as quick as I can.\'94\
She was alive at least. Toby started to pull on the rope, but there wasn\'92t much of it left. It had rubbed where it went over the roof and had broken.\
He looked back down the roof and saw the first rope still wrapped around the chimney on the lower roof. He would have to go all the way back and get that.\
Luckily he had no time to think about the height. His need to get to Vera was stronger than his fear. He scrambled as quickly as he could along the roof, pulled the rope up off the lower roof and took it back and wrapped it around the chimney at the front of the house. It wasn\'92t as thick as the rope that had just broken. He wrapped it around himself anyway and leaned back, his stomach lurching and bucking with nerves.\
Step by step he went backwards down the roof. \
As he got to the edge he willed himself to keep going but his body locked up with fear. He looked over the edge and saw Vera lying in the front garden. She looked normal, she was conscious, she even waved when she saw him looking down at her. \
\'93Coming Vera.\'94 he said. He concentrated very hard on the need to help her. He tried to think about anything other than how high he was over the street.\

\i Toby, they\'92ll be there in a minute, hurry up.
\i0 \

\i Vera\'92s fallen, she\'92s broken something.
\i0 \

\i Carry her then, just get her out of there.
\i0 \
Toby tried to step down but he couldn\'92t.\

\i Esme, it\'92s really high, I don\'92t think I can get down.
\i0 \
Esme\'92s voice was right inside him now, 
\i You can do it Toby.
\i0 \

\i I can\'92t
\i0 \

\i How about I do it for you?
\i0  Esme said.\

\i What? That\'92s not possible
\i0 \

\i Just relax
\i0  said Esme, 
\i let your mind go clear ok?
\i0 \

\i OK
\i0  said Toby, and he just stood there, trying not to think of anything.\
After a couple of seconds he had the strangest sensation. He felt one of his legs twitching, totally out of his control. Then it moved. It stepped down the wall. He didn\'92t have time to be scared, he was fascinated.\

\i It\'92s working Esme
\i0 , he said.\

\i Be quiet!
\i0  she commanded, 
\i I\'92m concentrating!
\i0 \
He kept looking down at the ground as his feet took one step after another by themselves and in a minute he was touching down on the ground beside Vera.\
\'93Where does it hurt?\'94 he asked as soon as he could.\
\'93My ankle. it\'92s my ankle.\'94 she said. \
He nodded and crouched down and looked at her legs. Sure enough one of them was bent at a weird angle. \
Toby looked back at her face. He could see she was being incredibly brave. He reached out and took her hand, she squeezed it really really tightly.\
\'93You have to make a splint.\'94 she said. \'93And wrap it with a bandage, to stabilise it.\'94\
He nodded, \'93Good idea.\'94 he said, \'93But we haven\'92t got the time.\'94\
She looked at him like she knew what was coming. \'93OK then. Let\'92s go.\'94\
\'93I am so sorry.\'94 said Toby. Then he bent down and lifted her body up.\
Somehow she managed not to scream, instead she dropped her head onto Toby\'92s shoulder, gritted her teeth and growled like an animal.\
\'93That\'92s it.\'94 he said as he got her vertical, her bad ankle hanging uselessly down. \
\'93It hurts Toby, it hurts.\'94 she whimpered.\
\'93I know it does, your being really brave.\'94\
\'93You think so?\'94\
\'93I know so.\'94 he said. \'93Now we have to move. I\'92m going to carry you.\'94\
She nodded.\
\'93It\'92s going to hurt like blazes, but you\'92ll be ok.\'94\
She nodded again, wiped tears out of her eyes.\
\'93Lets get out of here.\'94\
Toby quickly spoke to Esme, 
\i I\'92ll take her North, up to XX street. Send Phillip with the wheelbarrow. I\'92ll meet him behind the bins there.
\i0 \

\i Good idea.
\i0 \
With as much care as he could manage Toby lifted Esme up onto his shoulders. She sobbed and hit him on the chest with one of her hands.\
\'93If that helps, keep doing it!\'94 he said.\
And she did. As they staggered up the street she hit him a couple of times, really hard.\
\
In a couple of minutes they were at the end of the street. There was a small joiner\'92s shops there, now empty. Toby knew around the back was some space for rubbish bins. He plunged into the darkness, feeling along the wall with his hand until his eyes adjusted. It was the best chance they had of hiding from the German\'92s.\
There were a couple of old crates and some broken wood where the bins used to be.\
\'93Ready?\'94 he asked Vera.\
\'93No!\'94 she said.\
\'931, 2, 3\'85\'94 Toby let her off his shoulders as gently as he could and swung her onto the crates.\
She moaned again and this time her eyes rolled in her head and she passed out.\
Toby checked that she was breathing, then laid her down properly, being as gentle as he could with her broken ankle. Looking around he found some slats. He laid them beside her leg and with the bit of broken rope he still had in his coat pocket, he tied them together as she has suggested earlier, immobilising her ankle as best he could. Stopping it flapping would make it a lot less painful.\
As he finished he heard a patrol of soldiers march past on the street. They would scour the street, see there was no one there, and start to fan out and look around. Odds on they would be discovered if they stayed here. \
Moments later there was another noise, someone coming down the alley. Toby thought they were about to be discovered, but it was Phillip with the wheelbarrow.\
He didn\'92t need to say anything and as quick as they could they picked up Vera and placed her in the barrow before sneaking back out the alley.\
They checked the street was clear then ran as fast as they could all the way back to the orphanage.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl440\sb560\sa280

\b \cf0 Robin\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\b0 \cf0 \'93She has to go to the hospital.\'94 Esme said, \'93We can\'92t fix that with herbs.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Vera was propped up on easy chair, surrounded by pillows and buried under the warmest feather quilt they had. She was conscious again, but her normally bright face and red cheeks were drained of colour and humour, her eyes strained with agony.\
\'93I\'92ll be all right.\'94 she said weakly, looking anything but all right.\
\'93She needs pain killers and a proper cast.\'94 said Toby.\
Phillip nodded. \
\'93But how will we explain it?\'94 said June.\
\'93I tripped and fell down the stairs.\'94 said Vera.\
June folded her arms, \'93They\'92ll put two and two together. They\'92re not that stupid.\'94\
\'93Maybe they will.\'94 said Toby. \'93We\'92ll take the punishment then, we\'92ll say we broke out for a different reason, we\'92ll keep Miles out of it and say we were up to something.\'94\
\'93Agreed.\'94 said Esme.\
\'93And me.\'94 said Phillip. \
Toby said, \'93It\'92s the only thing we can do.\'94 \
June nodded.\
\'93Not agreed.\'94 said Vera.\
\'93You\'92re being very brave Vera.\'94 said Esme, \'93But you need to go to hospital, no question.\'94\
Esme looked at Phillip, \'93Get the barrow.\'94\
\'93No\'85\'94 moaned Vera, but Toby wasn\'92t sure if it was from pain or disappointment. He went over to her and held her hand. \'93Sorry.\'94 he said, \'93It should have been me that fell.\'94\
\
\
The following day the Reds worked around the orphanage as usual. Toby announced at breakfast that Vera had hurt herself and had gone to hospital, but other than that the Reds didn\'92t say anything to the other children about last night\'92s activities. \
Toby was tired from last night\'92s efforts and once the excitement wore off he felt even more so. He wanted to go and see Vera in hospital hut Esme and Vera told him not to go anywhere near the Town Hall, so after lunch he went to the games room, pulled the curtains and settled into the sofa.\
He only meant to take a quick nap, but he woke with a start. He had that sick feeling you get when you\'92re woken up from a deep sleep and he realised that he must have been asleep for hours.\
Sitting across from his was Robin, sipping a cup of tea and reading a book, acting like nothing much had happened.\
Toby just stared at him, mixed emotions running through him. He was relieved that Robin was all right, but furious with him for just running off and leaving them without a torch.\
\'93What?\'94 said Robin.\
\'93Have you got any idea what happened last night, after you ran off?\'94\
\'93Nope.\'94 \
Toby kept staring at him. \'93Do you care?\'94\
\'93Sounds like I should.\'94 said Robin. He stood up and puled the curtains, letting in the late afternoon light. \'93Have you got any idea that I did last night?\'94\
\'93No.\'94 said Toby, \'93But you had the torch with you.\'94\
\'93Did I?\'94 asked Robin.\
\'93Yes!\'94 said Toby. \'93We couldn\'92t come back through the tunnel.\'94\
\'93Oh.\'94 said Robin, suddenly looking a lot less cocky. \'93How\'92d you get back?\'94\
\'93We came over the roof of a house, over the wall.\'94\
\'93Well done.\'94\
\'93Vera broke her ankle.\'94\
\'93Oh.\'94 Robin looked really worried, \'93And that\'92s my fault?\'94\
\'93What do you think Robin?\'94 Toby was trying not to shout at him.\
Robin sighed. \'93Yes, yes I forgot about the torch, I\'92m sorry.\'94\
\'93Sorry?!\'94 screeched Toby. He could feel anger wrapping itself around him.\
\'93What else can I be?\'94 he shrugged. \'93I can\'92t go back in time can I?\'94\
At this point June, Esme and Phillip came in, drawn by the loud voices. Esme went up to Robin and wrapped her arms around him. Robin looked relieved that she hadn\'92t hit him, but also looked embarrassed by the hug.\
\'93Thank God you are all right.\'94 she said.\
\'93I\'92m all right.\'94 he said, \'93But let me say first off how sorry I am about Vera. It\'92s my fault, I see that.\'94\
Toby thought that was very clever of Robin, too apologise straight away. Phillip looked mightily annoyed. He wasn\'92t one to forgive so easily.\uc0\u8232 June didn\'92t seem to care much, she just stood there with her arms crossed looking thoughtful. \'93I\'92ve been trying to figure out what you did.\'94 she said. \'93But I\'92ve only come up with bad things.\'94\
\'93Like what?\'94 asked Robin.\
\'93You were running away to tell German high command about us.\'94 June said.\
Esme held up a hand to calm June down, \'93The thing is Robin the German\'92s knew you were coming back, someone tipped them off.\'94\
\'93You thought I would do that?\'94 he asked, incredulous. \'93Probably Miles did it, or one of his drippy housemates.\'94\
Phillip said, \'93If you don\'92t say what you\'92re going to do then people will think the worst of you. Specially you.\'94\
Robin nodded, \'93I know you think I\'92m a bit of a weasel Phillip.\'94\
Phillip didn\'92t deny it so Robin continued, \'93But the reason I didn\'92t want to tell anyone what I was doing was that I didn\'92t know if I would find anything.\'94\
\'93What were you looking for?\'94 asked Esme.\
\'93Church records.\'94 said Robin, as if it was obvious. \'93I couldn\'92t find any in St Mary\'92s.\'94\
\'93What are you talking about!\'94 shouted June, her hands tightening into fists.\
Her outburst made all the other instantly quiet. June didn\'92t often lose her temper, but she had now. \'93Will you just tell us what you\'92ve been doing, and tell us straight!\'94 She stomped her foot on the floor and stood there, straight and stiff, like a lamppost.\
Robin tossed his hands into the air and shouted back, \'93I\'92m trying to! If you\'92d just shut up!\'94\
\'93Ok everyone.\'94 said Esme, stepping between the two of them, \'93Take a deep breath.\'94 \
She checked that June and Robin had both calmed down before she continued. \'93I am sure that Robin wants to tell us his story and I know that everyone wants to hear it, so why don\'92t we all sit down and let him tell it?\'94\
Everyone took a seat and looked with expectation at Robin.\
\'93Well,\'94 he said, \'93when were at the church, at the funeral of Algernon, afterwards I decided to poke my nose around, you know to see if there was anything useful in the place.\'94\
\'93You went thieving in a church?!\'94 said June, outraged.\
\'93June!\'94 said Esme, \'93Let him tell the story please.\'94\
\'93Thank you Esme,\'94 said Robin before continuing, \'93Or course there were a ton of candles, which we\'92ve been using for the last couple of months, but I was wondered what Pethergrew might have in left in the church office. I managed to pick the lock and take a look around.\'94\
\'93What did you find?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93Nothing much. Some paper and ink and that kind of thing, which I took of course. But there was also a big old wooden filing cabinet, locked.\'94\
\'93You broke into that too?\'94 said June. \'93Confidential files.\'94\
\'93Yes I did!\'94 said Robin, continuing before June could say anything else, \'93There were all sorts of things in there, births, deaths and marriages, you know - certificates. But there was also a couple of books, like registers. And there was one for orphanage. A list of names and dates they came here, the sort of thing you would expect.\
\'93Were we all in there?\'94 asked Phillip.\
\'93We were all in there.\'94 confirmed Robin. \'93And some names had notes beside them.\'94\
\'93What kind of notes?\'94 asked Esme.\
\'93Numbers and letters.\'94\
\'93Like what?\'94 asked June. \'93I could work them out.\'94\
\'93I already worked them out June, I looked through all the other books and figured out what things meant. \'91PNK\'92 Parents Not Known. Most of us had that, we were simply abandoned. But then some were \'91CRO\'92. Can you figure that out June?\'94 he asked snidely.\
\'93CRO?\'94 repeated June, thinking about it for a moment. \'93Give me a clue.\'94\
\'93The first word is Central.\'94 began Robin.\
\'93Central Records Office!\'94 said June over the top of him.\
\'93Yes!\'94 said Robin, laughing at Junes excitement at working out the code. \'93The Central Record Office of the Church of England.\'94\
\'93That\'92s where you went last night.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93How did you find out where it was?\'94 asked Esme.\
 \'93That was easy. There was a directory in the office - all parish and head office addresses.\'94\
\'93So where is the Central Records Office?\'94 asked Phillip.\
\'93In the basement of the office next to St Paul\'92s Cathedral.\'94\
\'93And you broke in?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93Yes.\'94 said Robin, with a hint of pride in his voice, \'93It was easy really. And when I found the orphanage records I locked myself into the room. I had some bread and water, a few apples, I would have been allright for a day or two. I learned a lesson from Phillip\'92s journey to the Town Hall.\'94\
\'93What was that?\'94 asked Phillip.\
\'93Make sure you have plenty of time and lots of food.\'94\
Phillip grunted, not wanting to remember his ordeal in the hospital.\
 \'93You found the records for this parish?\'94 asked Esme.\
\'93Found them?\'94 said Robin, \'93I have them right here.\'94\
He reached into his pack and pulled out a large register book and put it on the floor in front of him.\
\'93Anyone brave enough to look?\'94\
Toby and Esme looked at each other. Esme looked uncertain.\

\i Want to find out who our parents are?
\i0  he asked her.\

\i Ours might not be in there.
\i0 \

\i Someone\'92s parents are, or he wouldn\'92t be so dramatic about it.
\i0 \

\i You\'92re right.
\i0 \
Toby took a breath. 
\i I don\'92t want to know. I\'92m happy I have a sister, it\'92s more than anyone else here has.
\i0 \

\i Yes. But if we know\'85 we don\'92t have to actually do anything about it do we?
\i0 \

\i No. I guess not.
\i0  admitted Toby.\

\i But we have to know.
\i0 \

\i I guess we do.
\i0  said Toby.\
\'93I\'92ll look.\'94 said Toby before anyone else could.\
\'93There you go then.\'94 said Robin, pushing the book towards Toby.\
Toby flicked through the book. There were lists under each parish name in East London since 1930, almost twenty years of admissions. There were hundreds and hundreds of names. \
Something struck Toby as he read the names, \'93If their parents were unknown how did they get their names?\'94\
\'93I think they just made them up if they didn\'92t know.\'94 said Robin.\
\'93No.\'94 said Esme, \'93Some parents left notes, with names on them.\'94\
\'93If they could write at all.\'94 mumbled Phillip.\
\'93Imagine having to give away a baby.\'94 Said Esme, \'93Wouldn\'92t you want it to at  least have the name you gave it?\'94\
They all thought about that, about the idea that someone they didn\'92t know had given them a name.\
Toby continued through the book, looking at all the listings. Some had an address beside them, and sometimes even a name.\
\'93Why do some have names and addresses?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93Those families must have been known to the church. They would have been in the congregation. The parents would have given the children to the church.\'94 said Robin.\
\'93Why would they do that?\'94 asked June. \'93That\'92s beastly.\'94\
Toby looked down at the St Mary\'92s page. \'93Well June, I think you can answer that question for yourself.\'94\
\'93What do you mean?\'94 she asked, confused.\
Toby turned the book towards her. There was a list of all their names. Only one had a name and address beside it. he read it out, \'93June Hawthorn. Parents Richard and Janice. Cloister Mews, Norwich.\'94\
\'93Norwich?\'94 said Esme. \'93That\'92s miles away.\'94\
\'93One hundred and twenty three miles.\'94 said June, \'93by the A10 through Cambridge.\'94\
Phillip looked at June in amazement, \'93How do you even know that?\'94 he asked.\
She shrugged. \'93I\'92m just brilliant I guess.\'94\
They all laughed at June, a laugh that was cut short by a very loud knock on the front door of the orphanage.\
Robin was nearest the window. He leaned over and peeked down. \
Toby watched him doing it like he was in slow motion. He had time to figure out who was going to be at the door, turn and look at Esme and speak. \
Robin and Toby spoke at the same time. \'93Finch.\'94\
\
Behind Finch were six soldiers with guns at the ready. Beside him was a monster of a man. He had on a full length leather coat that made him look like a huge black square. It seemed that one half of his chest was covered in a glittering array of medals and instead of a helmet he had a peaked cap that had a black cross on the brim. Whoever he was he was a senior commander of some kind.\
\'93I recognise him.\'94 said Robin, \'93From when we crashed the tram. He was the one who was hitting everyone.\'94\
Toby looked at the mans face. His mouth was a wide slit, his nose was wonky, like it had been broken several times. Even from here you could see he had brilliant blue eyes. He looked as calm and calculating as Finch looked excited. Toby didn\'92t like it when adults looked calm, they were hard to read and dangerous.\
Whatever was about to happen it was not going to be good, Toby knew that. This was trouble, proper trouble. This was the kind of trouble where people ended up in solitary, or a coffin.\
\'93Ok.\'94 said Toby, \'93This is all on me.\'94 \
And before anyone could object he swept out of the room, descended the stairs, opened the front door and then closed it behind him before walking out to meet the Germans.\
\'93It\'92s all my fault.\'94 he said looking directly into Finch\'92s eyes, \'93I\'92ll come quietly.\'94\
}