{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Even though they went down to the market twice in the next month, June never once came out with them. \
They all tried to convince her to come with them, they described all the wonderful things you could see and all the people, but she just shook her head. Instead she drove herself mental by waiting up and \'91standing guard\'92 for them, though what she would actually do if Finch came storming into their empty dorm at six in the morning was never clear. \
June was the same age as the rest of them but she looked several years younger. She was thin and not very strong. She always tried hard in the garden, sweating and grafting away, but at the end of the day the piles of weeds or potatoes she had taken from the garden\'a0were always half the size of anyone else's. The other Walthamstow Reds would often top her piles up when she wasn't looking, so she wouldn't feel so bad or get into trouble with Braithwaite, the grumpy gardener.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 She wasn\'92t strong, or practical, but she was good at other things. Like homework. She was a magic at that. She could finish your homework for you before you'd even finished reading the questions. Maths, english, geography, spelling, she was brilliant at anything that required reading and absorbing knowledge. She got in trouble in Bertie\'92s classes for 
\i knowing all the answers
\i0 , or for 
\i doing too much work
\i0  or 
\i knowing too much
\i0 . Everyone knew that June was ten times brighter than Bertie, but Bertie didn\'92t like being shown up in class.\
So it was no surprise that it was June who saw the smallest thing, something that would turn their world upside down.\
\
One night, as they were lounging on their bunk beds in the dorm and munching on apples they had nicked from a market raid that morning, June noticed that Toby had wrapped his in a sheet of discarded newspaper.\
\'93What\'92s the date on that, Toby?\'94 she asked him.\
He decided to humour her as he knew she liked to be exact about dates and numbers, so he read it out, \'93September the third, Nineteen Forty Six.\'94\
\'93Three days ago.\'94 said June, \'93May I have it?\'94\
Toby shrugged and handed the ragged piece of paper over to her.\
She smoothed it out on top of her bed and started reading. No one thought much of it, June read everything she could find, no matter how boring. She even read text books, books that should have been years too difficult for her.\
Robin was halfway through telling them all, for the umpteenth time, how he was going to start a Rolls Royce shop after the war when June\'92s small voice interrupted him.\
\'93The war\'92s not going to end, at least not soon. And not well, not for us.\'94\
They all looked at her, confused. "What are you talking about?" said Esme.\
"Come and look." she said.\
They all clustered around June to see what she had found, each pulling at the paper to see what was on it.\
\'93Stop! You'll rip it!\'94 said Toby urgently. He pulled the paper up into the air and read the headline.\
\'93Germans mass along French coast. London to feel Speer\'92s wrath as new V6 rockets set to launch.\'94\
There was a moment\'92s stunned silence. This was the first they had heard of Germans on the French coast, or of rockets pointed at London.\
\'93Jeepers.\'94 said Robin, serious and solemn for once.\
June continued to read from the article, reeling off a dizzying list of numbers. \'93A million troops, thousands of planes, hundreds of ships all gathering around the Dutch, French and Norwegian coastlines.\'94\
Toby felt a little sick, and looking at Esme he could see that she was confused and upset too. \
Finch gave them regular updates at breakfast prayers and, according to him, everything was going fine. According to Finch the Germans had given up on England and had settled on occupying mainland Europe. According to Finch there was nothing at all to worry about.\
\'93You know what that means.\'94 said Vera, her voice low and tense.\
\'93No.\'94 said Phillip, who always needed things spelt out for him.\
\'93They\'92re going for London. That\'92s why they're in Holland and Norway. They want to come in over the South East and Essex coast, maybe right up the Thames itself.\'94\
\'93But I thought,\'94 said Toby, his voice tense with confusion, \'93we had all this under control.\'94\
Vera spoke again, her face ashen with worry, \'93One thing is certain, we can\'92t trust what Finch tells us.\'94\
They all went silent then, thinking about what a German invasion of London would be like. The truth was they had no idea what it would be like, but everyone was certain it wouldn\'92t be any good.\
\
They had all been five or six years old when the war started so they had lived with it constantly, but only as a distant threat. To them the war was an excuse for Finch to work them harder, or for Collins to justify spending as little on their food as he could. The fighting itself was a long way away and happened to other people.\
Robin broke the silence. \'93I wonder how big a V6 rocket is. Must pack a big wallop. Remember the V2?\'94\
No one needed to answer Robin\'92s question. They all remembered the London Blitz of the early 1940\'92s. Several houses just up the road had been destroyed and dozens of people injured, though it was much worse down on The Thames where the docks were. They had got used to seeing searing orange flames on the horizon from fires in the factories that ran down the Lee Valley to the docks.\
That was six years ago - how bad would a V6 be? Were they three times worse than a V2?\
\
Toby decided he needed to speak. He liked to think of himself as a leader and he knew that leaders spoke first and encouraged people. \'93We should let everyone in the Orphanage know what\'92s happening.\'94\
Esme shook her head. \'93Not yet.\'94\
\'93Why not?!\'94 Toby frowned at his sister. angry that she had contradicted him.\
\'93We don\'92t know enough. We need some more newspapers. We must be able to get some from somewhere.\'94\
Vera, Robin and June nodded in agreement at Esme's idea.\
\'93I know where.\'94 said Robin. \'93I\'92ll go out by myself and get some.\'94\
\'93Take Phillip.\'94 said Esme, \'93He can carry a ton of them then.\'94\
Phillip glowed with pride at having his strength recognised.\
\'93We\'92ll leave them out for everyone to read.\'94 Toby said, \'93Everyone needs to know the truth.\'94\
Vera said, \'93Finch better not find out it was us or he\'92ll make our lives hell.\'94\
They all agreed with Toby on that. No one wanted to be on the wrong side of Finch.\
\
The next day all the children in the orphanage found a copy of 'The Times' on their table as they came in for breakfast. Robin and Phillip had gone out alone at six o\'92clock and swiped eight, one for each dorm, off the top of a bundle that was left outside the local newsagent on Hoe Street.\
 Soon everyone had pages of the paper in front of them, passing them rapidly around the table so that everyone - at least the children who could read - could see what was really happening in the outside world.\
It was grim reading. The English Prime Minister, Lord Basham, had admitted to Parliament that they were powerless to stop the build-up as most of our own troops were still tied up in the war in the Baltic (wherever that was) and it would take weeks to get them back. \
There were stories about the failure of British Intelligence - why was it that none of Britain\'92s spies had known anything about the build up of enemy troops before they happened? How had everyone been blind-sided by the German Chancellor, Albert Speer?\
June was particularly interested in a long and dense article about the German code breaking effort. She sat like a sparrow, pecking and tutting at the article\'a0as if it were food. When Toby asked why she was so agitated, she did her best to explain what was going on. Apparently the English had cracked the German\'92s Enigma code early in the war using their new inventions - computers - and that had given them an intelligence advantage for many years. But two years ago the Germans had realised what had happened and started designing and using their own computers to make uncrackable new codes. So now the English couldn\'92t read the minds of the Germans like they used to. Ever since the failure of the D-Day landings in France in 1943 the English had been on the back foot. That was the simple version, though June said it was much more complicated and that the maths was really interesting. \
Toby had to take her word on that.\
\
When Finch and Bertie came in to take their place at the top table for breakfast the room was in chaos. They both panicked and rushed about the room, desperately trying to pull the papers out of the children\'92s hands. Other children were pulling the papers back out from behind them and the Finches were getting crosser and crosser, shouting all sorts of threats and punishments at them. But there were too many children and eventually the Finches had to back out of the room, leaving the papers behind and locking the children into the dining room without any breakfast.\
The children barely noticed their hunger as they sat\'a0there\'a0reading the papers and talking about the news. Some of the little kids didn't understand what was happening and started to cry. Esme and Vera went off to try and explain things to them, explain and give them a hug.\
Toby and Phillip finally noticed that they were hungry and went into the kitchen, stoked the fire, and started to prepare the big porridge pot and make the pots of tea that children had with their breakfast.\
\
Finally, at nine, Finch unlocked the door and stood in front of them, looking for once humble in his long frock coat and too-tight dog collar. He was wringing his hands and when he spoke he sounded older and weaker than usual, his pinched face flushed with anxiety. Beside him Bertie stood with crossed arms, formidable and silent, as stern as her husband was nervous. Toby thought Finch looked about as frightened of her as he did of the children.\
\'93It was the parish\'92s fault,\'94 he started. \'93I wanted to tell you everything but they wouldn\'92t let me.\'94 His voice was lost under the sound of sixty children booing and jeering and it took him a couple of tries to get them all to be quiet. \
\'93Yes there are Germans on the other side of the channel.\'94 he continued, \'93but really, there is nothing to be worried about.\'94\
This statement bought more boos. How could there be nothing to worry about if they were about to be invaded?\
As the hubbub died down, Toby, thinking it was about time he showed his leadership qualities again, shouted out over the dining room, \'93How about you give us the papers every day then, if there\'92s nothing to worry about?\'94\
The very impertinence of this question silenced the room. Everyone looked between Finch, who was beet-red now, and Toby. Toby was trying his best to look strong and not show how he was really feeling, which was absolutely terrified. The face-off seemed to last for ever, with both of them looking at each other. Who would break first?\
\'93Newspapers?! For children?!\'94 spat Mr Finch. \'93Very well, you shall have newspapers. But,\'94 he raised his pointer finger high into the air above them, \'93don\'92t blame me if you don\'92t like what you read!\'94\
This brought a series of cheers and Toby felt encouraging slaps on his back. As Finch left the room he looked over at Toby. Toby felt an icy stab of anxiety as Finch gave him a smile, the kind of smile that said he would be taking special interest in Toby from now on.\
}