{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\f0\fs24 \cf0 It was five in the morning, the bedroom window was dark, and the occupants - Mr and Mrs Finch - should be fast asleep. But Toby was taking no chances. He held up a hand to stop the four children behind him, put his finger to his lips to show they should be quiet, and watched.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 They were only twenty feet from the locked front gate, but the gate was right under the window. If the Finch\'92s woke up, if they were caught trying to sneak out of the orphanage, they would get a proper lashing. \
Toby had been punished often enough. He knew what it felt like to have that narrow tail of leather slashed down onto his open palm. He didn\'92t want to feel that much pain again, not if he could help it. \
\
Toby remembered back to breakfast, to Finch\'92s daily talk. They had to listen, with their porridge going cold in front of them, as Finch told them all that they were 
\i useless
\i0  and 
\i unwanted
\i0 , that they were 
\i parentless
\i0  and had 
\i no chance of making anything of their short and miserable lives
\i0 . And, what\'92s more, it was 
\i entirely their own fault
\i0 . \
Finch said all of this with a great deal of pleasure, his voice rising and falling with dramatic effect as he told them off for things they could do nothing about. Finch was an unpleasant man. He was thin and tall and bitter, like a stick of licoeriqe. He was also the headmaster of the orphanage, so he could do what he wanted., how he wanted and when he wanted to do it.\
So most mornings he would start the day with a five minute lecture on the children\'92s failings. None of the children needed reminding that their situation was grim. They really were all parentless. They lived, crammed one on top of the other, in a draughty old orphanage run by Finch and his wife. They relied on the charity of the church and, in this year of 1947, there wasn\'92t much charity left. After eight long years of war with Germany money and good will were hard to come by.\
\
Life was tough, which was why they needed to have some fun every now and then. And if Finch wouldn\'92t let them have any, they would have to take some for themselves.\
After looking at the Finch\'92s bedroom window for a full minute, Toby dropped his hand and the others crept ahead and joined him. \
Toby looked over at the gate. In his hand was a large iron key, one end of it covered with a sticky smear of duck fat. This had better work, or they would all be locked up for a week, like the children from Dorm Two.\
\
\
It had all started as a joke. The six of them - Toby, Esme, Vera, Phillip, June and Robin - had been talking by candle light after the lights-out bell. They were discussing the big scandal, how Dorm Two had tried to escape from the orphanage one night, just for fun.\
And it probably had been fun, right until the moment they were caught trying to sneak out. Caught by Finch himself at the front gate. He docked them all privileges for a month and made them confess to Pethergrew, the parish Rector and Finch's boss. Finch put a padlock on the outside of Dorm Two\'92s door and locked them in every night. \
"Caught!" said Vera, her button nose glowing from horror at the thought, "Imagine being caught by Finch for doing something so bad."\
"It wouldn't be the strap that would hurt, it would be the lecture you got afterwards that would kill you." joked Robin, bringing a chortle of knowing laughter from all the children.\
Toby could see it all. "A lecture that would last longer than the eternity of Hell."\
"Toby, don\'92t!" Esme barked at her brother. She didn't like religion being mocked.\
"I wouldn't mind a lecture about Hell," chipped in Robin, "so long as he gave you some Heaven to look forward to occasionally, but he doesn't see things that way, does he?"\
Even Esme couldn't argue that point. Finch never seemed to get round to talking about the good points of being a Christian.\
"They must have been really clumsy to get caught." said Toby.\
"Bad at sneaking." agreed Phillip, who really cared about things like sneaking about, and how strong you were, and how many times you could be hit on the upper arm without showing any pain.\
Robin lay back on his bed, looking straight up at the wooden beamed ceiling and the many fine cracks in the plaster. Toby could see his big toe through his worn grey sock. \'93Dorm two, they're all stupid." Robin said, more to himself than anyone else.\
"Maybe someone tipped them off?" said Vera.\
Toby thought that was very likely. "It would be just like Finch to have a child on the inside."\
Esme looked at him, horrified. "What kind of child would spy for Finch?"\
"One with more food than the rest." said Robin, looking at Phillip.\
Phillip exploded off his bed, moving his chunky body towards Robin with a sudden and alarming strength. Robin tried to escape by dropping to the floor beside his bed and crawling under the bed, but Phillip was on him in a second, pinning him to the rough planking of the floor, his bulky knees pressing Robin\'92s arms to the floor.\
June put her hands up around her ears and shrieked.\
"Quiet!" hissed Esme.\
"What are you saying?!" demanded Phillip angrily.\
Robin, who didn't stand a chance in a physical contest against Phillip, backed down. "Nothing\'85 I'm not saying anything, am I." When that didn't get any let-up from Phillip Robin tried a different tack. "You could never be the snitch in Dorm Two, could you? You don't even sleep there."\
Phillip grunted at Robin's logic but kept him pinned down anyway, unsure what to do next.\
Toby wondered if he would have to intervene and talk Phillip out of hurting Robin, but then June suddenly spoke. \'93Squeaky lock!\'94 she said.\
\'93What\'92s that June?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93If they were caught at the front gate is was probably the squeaky lock. The Finch\'92s bedroom looks over the gate, they would have heard it.\'94\
\'93And\'94 said Esme, \'93if they tried to get out at midnight then the Finch\'92s wouldn\'92t have been in bed very long, they go to bed at eleven.\'94\
Toby nodded, \'93So they went too early and got ratted out by a lock?\'94 \
Esme continued, "The best way to avoid detection would be to escape, not at midnight, but very early in the morning, say at five o'clock. Everyone would be asleep for hours by then."\
Having caught their attention, she looked at the others, "Well, it's the least likely time to want to escape the orphanage isn't it?"\
That was just the kind of thing that Esme was very good at. She would often sit and listen to a conversation among the children and, just when an argument was brewing and fisticuffs were being threatened, she would say something in her strong and even voice and everyone would find that what she said made perfect sense. They would stop arguing, agree with her, and feel rather stupid that they hadn't thought of her suggestion first. This habit was deeply annoying to her brother. He hated it when his sister was right.\
But what she had said set everyone thinking. It was as if Esme had popped the lid on a delicious tin of sweets that belonged to someone else and what you had to do, even though you knew it was bad, was lift the lid right off and see them for yourself.\
\'93Why we would bother trying to escape?\'94 said Phillip, \'93There\'92s nowhere to go at five in the morning is there?\'94\
Vera answered him. "The point of getting out is not to do anything in particular, it\'92s to prove that we have some kind of choice in our lives. Even if that isn\'92t true, it would be nice to feel that for once, wouldn't it?"\
"Why don't we," said Toby, trying to go one better than Esme, "mount an escape mission ourselves?"\
Phillip, distracted, climbed off Robin, who immediately rubbed his upper arms to get some blood back into them. "What kind of mission?" Phillip said.\
"Let's do a runner." said Toby, "At five. For two hours. Just to show we can."\
Phillip, who always said yes to anything that sounded brave, even if it was obviously stupid, said he would do it. Robin agreed straight away. This was just the sort of tricky, sneaky thing that he liked doing. Vera and Esme - who both thought they were as brave and clever as any boy - looked at each other, and agreed it was worth a try. In the end, it was only June who said she wouldn't go out with them, though she would help by standing guard. \
That didn't amount to much help at all. Everyone knew that June, despite being the cleverest child in the Orphanage by miles, was a tiny scrap of a girl who wouldn't say boo to a goose let alone guard anything. But no one said anything to make her feel bad.\
\'93And you need some duck fat.\'94 said June.\
Everyone looked at her like she was mad. \
\'93What\'92s that June?\'94 asked Toby.\
Looking disappointed that she was having to explain something so obvious, she said, \'93You need something to stop the lock squeaking, but you can\'92t put oil on the key it will just run off, and you can\'92t carry a can of oil around with you. But if you dipped the key in duck fat it would stick to the key and stop the lock squeaking.\'94 \
*\'a0\
So that was how they found themselves sneaking out the kitchen door of the Orphanage at five that morning without any real idea of what they were going to do, only knowing that they had to be back by seven for the wake-up bell.\
Toby put the key into the lock, turned it gently back and forwards a couple of times to push the fat around, then carefully turned the key. \
It was blissfully silent. \
Moments later they were all on Shernall Street, walking away from the orphanage.\
Well, thought Toby, they might be Unwanted but they had just proved that they weren\'92t Useless. Not unless they were caught coming back into the orphanage that is.\
}