{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Just four hours later, when they were out at the allotment weeding, Toby heard Robin mutter \'93Incoming, three o\'92clock.\'94 under his breath.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Toby looked up to see Bertie storming across the gardens towards them looking like murder. Her shirt was catching the wind and billowing into her face and she had to keep angrily swatting it away from her as she walked. You could practically see the steam coming out of her ears.\
Toby would have burst out laughing, but he realised that she was heading straight for him. He kept his head down, digging in the dirt, pretending to concentrate on his task.\
\'93You!\'94 She barked, forcing Toby to look up into her sweaty face. \'93Headmaster\'92s office! Now!\'94\
Toby barely had time to nod before she turned and started to stomp back to the Orphanage.\
\
By the time he had cleaned himself up and walked back to the Orphanage it was twelve o\'92clock. Toby was moving as slowly as he thought he could get away with because he was scared. He had a terrible feeling of dread in the pit of his stomach. He was going to get the strap, that was certain. And maybe something worse.\
Knocking on Finch\'92s door his heart was racing and his hands were clammy. \
\'93Come in.\'94 said Finch, sounding surprisingly pleasant and cheery.\
Confused, Toby pushed open the door and saw Finch, not hovering behind his dark mahogany desk wielding his strap as usual, but sitting in a comfortable chair by the window, a closed Bible on his lap. \
Finch gestured to the empty chair across the occasional table, \'93Have a seat Tobias, please.\'94\
Toby didn\'92t know what was happening. Was Mr Finch actually being nice to him?\
He sat down warily. Mr Finch poured tea into a delicate cup and pushed it over the table towards Toby and then picked up a plate.\
\'93Biscuit?\'94 said Finch, offering him the plate.\
Toby\'92s eyes just about popped out. Biscuit? He couldn\'92t remember when he last had a biscuit, and he\'92d never had any as fine as the selection on offer now. There were shortbreads and pink lady fingers and wafers. Which one? He quickly picked a shortbread. The twinkling sprinkle of sugar was too much to resist.\
Biting into it was heavenly and the tea to wash it down was fragrant and sweet, much nicer than their own.\
\'93I am glad you could join me Toby, I wanted to talk with you.\'94 Finch smiled a broad smile that showed off his crooked and decaying teeth, making him look as friendly as a hungry crocodile.\
\'93You did?\'94 said Toby, unable to keep surprise out of his voice.\
\'93It was very clever, what you did today.\'94\
\'93Was it?\'94 Toby was really confused now, why was Finch complementing him?\
\'93Oh yes.\'94 Finch bit into a wafer, spreading a fine dust of flour into the air, then onto the front of his black shirt. \'93You put me in a corner.\'94\
\'93Did I?\'94 said Toby.\
Finch smiled his not-smile, \'93You know you did.\'94 Finch made a show of picking a shortbread from the plate, tapping it on his saucer before dramatically plunging it into his tea. \'93Very clever indeed.\'94\
Finch waited a moment, pulled the biscuit out and, in the way a sparrow might feed it\'92s young, let the whole thing drop with a fleshy plop into his upturned mouth.\
Toby felt a wave of nausea come over him and he had to pretend to cough to cover his disgust.\
Finch looked directly at Toby, \'93You put everyone against me.\'94\
Toby felt sweat suddenly prickle on his forehead. \'93Well, I think it would be fair to say that everyone agreed with me at the time.\'94 \
\'93Is that right?\'94 Finch took another shortbread and repeated the whole hideous dunking routine. Toby had to look at a photo on the wall, a wedding portrait of Finch and Bertie, to stop himself from gagging. They didn\'92t look much younger than they were now. They couldn't have been married for very long.\
Mr Finch continued, \'93It is good to be a part of the majority, wouldn\'92t you say?\'94\
Toby felt like he was being asked a trick question, but he couldn\'92t see what Mr Finch was driving at.\
\'93If they agree with you, certainly.\'94\
Finch nodded, leaned back in his chair and looked out the window. \'93Sometimes you must keep your own counsel and do what you think is right even though it goes against the majority. Because you know that one day your kind will come and save you, will come and prove you right. Then the sacrifice will have been worth it.\'94\
Mr Finch was making no sense at all. Toby wondered how long this was going to last. He would have preferred to get the strap, at least that was clear cut, all this talking was making his head spin.\
\'93If you say so, Mr Finch.\'94 he said.\
Finch snapped back to him, making Toby jump and his cup rattle in its saucer, \'93Boy! I\'92m offering you something here, the chance to be a leader, the chance to be part of the New World Order. Will you embrace that?\'94\
Toby really had no idea what he was meant to embrace, no idea what the \'91New World Order\'92 was, all he knew was that Finch was raving mad and the sooner he got out of his office the better. \
Finch leaned over the table towards Toby. \'93Don\'92t you want to be a leader?\'94 Finch asked, his red face just inches away from Toby, his breath both sickly and sweet at once.\
Toby spoke quickly, before he had a chance to think. \'93Yes sir. Yes I do, but...\'94\
\'93Excellent!\'94 said Finch, pulling the cup and saucer from Toby\'92s hand and practically pushing him out the door, \'93Await my word!\'94\
\'93But I don\'92t understand what you want!\'94\
\'93You will boy, you will.\'94 Finch put his fingers to his lips to silence Toby\'92s next question.\
With that Finch slammed the study door closed and Toby found himself back in the corridor, grateful that he hadn\'92t been caned but confused, deeply confused, about what he had just agreed to.\
\
Later, as Toby lay in bed, unable to sleep, he thought about the position they were all in. As orphans they had no rights and with no parents they had no one to stand up for them. The Church, represented by Finch, was meant to be looking after them, but the power he had over them was total. \
It was unfair. Why should this one man have so much say in the lives of sixty children? Why should Toby have no real choice when Finch asked him to do something? Finch was using his position to lord it over him, to manipulate him in ways that weren\'92t yet clear, and Toby didn\'92t like it.\
He turned in bed and saw Esme looking at him, her face only a couple of feet from his, a pale disc in the moonlight that leaked in around the threadbare curtains in their room.\
Yes, Esme was a pain sometimes, but there were moments\'a0that\'a0he felt very close to her, almost like he could see and hear what she was seeing and hearing. \
He remembered the time he had hurt his leg last year, slashing it deeply with a scythe as he was cutting hay out in Chingford Mount. Esme had been two miles away at the allotment but somehow she knew he had been hurt, and ran to Whipps Cross hospital, getting there just as he did. \
Braithwaite, the gardener, was amazed to see her there because he hadn\'92t sent a message to the Orphanage. Esme said she just had a sudden feeling of knowledge in her stomach and a strong urge to go to the hospital. Sometimes the thought of that spooked Toby out. And sometimes he thought they simply knew each other very well and she had made a lucky guess.\
Whatever the truth was, it felt good now when she put her hand in his and squeezed it before closing her eyes again and falling asleep. Everything would be all right, everything would be all right if they could just stay together.}