{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The next day Finch chose Toby to ring the ship\'92s bell that sounded out the daily timetable. First at seven for breakfast, then to signal the end of breakfast, then the beginning of work, then lunch, then back to work again, the dinner bell at six o\'92clock and, finally, the bell that sent everyone back to their dorms at nine. \
Ringing the bell was meant to be a privilege and Finch or Bertie chose the best for each period to ring the bell. 
\i The best breakfast eater, the best dishes-cleaner, the quietest at lunch, the most obedient in class.\

\i0 No one ever got to ring the bell right through the day. And Toby hadn\'92t been chosen to ring the bell for years. None of the older children ever wanted to do it, mostly was the under-tens who who got excited by the chance to yank the wooden handle on the brass chime and make it strike against the brilliant bronzed shell. Rumour had it the bell was off a Spanish ship that burnt in the battle of Trafalgar, but Toby thought that the simple inscription inside the rim was more accurate. 
\i Sheffield
\i0  it said. Nothing much Spanish about that.\
Being chosen to ring the bell was meant to show favour and be a sign that you were doing well, but to Toby it felt like punishment. \
And every time Finch selected him to ring the bell he gave Toby a broad smile. Which made Toby feel nervy-sick. \
What was Finch up to?\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 \
Toby hadn\'92t told Esme what had happened at yesterday\'92s meeting with Finch, and all through the day she looked at him oddly. It wasn\'92t like Toby to keep something from her and he felt ashamed. But he was doubly ashamed and confused about the conversation he\'92d had with Finch. \
He had to admit to himself that he did want to be a leader, to be something other than a labourer or a servant when he got out of the orphanage. He wanted to be able to look after his sister. Toby knew that she was perfectly capable of looking after herself, but he still felt the obligation of the older brother. \
Actually they had no idea which of them had been born first, but Toby believed he was the older one. It was just a feeling he had. A feeling he needed.\
\
That night, when the six of them were sitting on their beds in the attic, Toby noticed that no one was including him in their chit-chat, or even looking at him. \
Robin and June were reading, Robin was pretending to read one of his Beano comics and June a maths book. Philip was throwing a tired old tennis ball into the air and catching it and Vera was, as always, doing some hand sewing. Esme was looking at the window. Everyone was silent.\
Silence drove Toby crazy, he hated it. He would rather be talking, arguing even, anything other than the incriminating quiet. Still, he didn\'92t want to be the first to give in and break it, so it went on for ten minutes.\
Until he couldn\'92t take it anymore.\
\'93Is something wrong?\'94 Toby asked Esme.\
\'93With me?\'94 Said Esme still looking out the window. \'93No.\'94\
Robin gave a small snigger.\
\'93What\'92s up with you?\'94 snapped Toby.\
\'93Just clearing my throat.\'94 said Robin.\
Toby frowned. He looked at each of the others in turn but still none of them would look him in the eye. No one but June, who was always incapable of telling a lie.\
He decided to ask her directly. \'93Why won't anyone talk to me, June?\'94\
\'93Well...\'94 she started, not looking up from her book, \'93I think everyone is wondering why you were ringing the bell today.\'94\
\'93So what if I was ringing the bell?\'94 said Toby, sounding petulant.\
\'93No one gets to ring every bell in the day, Toby.\'94 said June.\
\'93Yes, and?\'94 said Toby again, even more defensively.\
June continued, \'93And that meeting you had with him yesterday. There were several theories. The main thrust seemed to be that you had sold out to Finch.\'94\
Toby felt the blood rush to his face. \'93Sold out? What do you mean by that?\'94\
Esme spoke softly. \'93Maybe you\'92d agreed to stop being a pain in return for something.\'94\
\'93Maybe the next time we sneak out of the orphanage we\'92ll find Finch waiting for us, with a big net!\'94 said Robin.\
Toby didn\'92t want to tell them the truth, he didn\'92t want to say that he had agreed to something but that even he didn\'92t know what it was. \
He had to think of something that didn\'92t make him look like a total idiot.\
\'93Well\'85\'94 he started, not quite sure of what he was about to say, \'93I did get Finch to, to\'85\'94\
\'93Yes?\'94 said Vera, looking at him expectantly.\
\'93I got him to trust me,\'94 he said, \'93so that I could find out what he is up to.\'94\
Toby had surprised even himself with that, but once he said it, it made perfect sense. \'93I am a double agent!\'94 he announced grandly.\
Esme clapped with happiness. \'93Oh thank goodness for that!\'94 Then she turned to Vera, \'93See? I told you he hadn\'92t gone bad.\'94\
Vera shrugged, looked at Toby and giggled as if to say that she hadn't really been thinking badly about him either. \'93I just thought it was odd.\'94 she said.\
\'93My behaviour was odd,\'94 said Toby grandly, \'93you were right to question it.\'94\
He turned to the rest of them. \'93We must stick together if we want to be able to survive the coming crisis, and that means we must trust each other. That includes questioning each other if need be.\'94 Toby liked the sound of that, he felt like a leader.\
\'93So why,\'94 said Robin snidely, \'94didn\'92t you tell us what you were doing?"\
Trying not to sound as caught out as he felt, Toby turned to Robin, who was looking at him closely. Toby decided to raise his voice at Robin, because he knew Robin didn\'92t like being shouted at, \'93Because I didn\'92t know if it would work, that\'92s why!\'94\
Robin looked away, though he didn\'92t look like he really believed Toby.\
\'93I think it\'92s brilliant.\'94 said Philip. \'93Well done.\'94\
\'93Thanks,\'94 said Toby, grateful that Philip was on his side.\
\'93So then,\'94 said Vera brightly, \'93what\'92s next?\'94\
\'93Next?\'94 stuttered Toby.\
\'93Now that you have his confidence, what happens next?\'94 repeated Vera.\
Toby had no idea what happened next. \
\'93That\'92s why I need your help.\'94 said Toby. \'94I have an idea, but\'85 I was interested to know what all of you thought I should do.\'94 Toby thought that was a stroke of genius - turn the question back on them.\
\'93What was your idea then?\'94 asked June, missing Toby\'92s point.\
Toby sighed. It was hard to be angry at June because she really didn\'92t have a clue about when she was being annoying so it was pointless getting cross.\
He started slowly, hoping an idea would turn up as he spoke. \'93I wanted to gain his trust so that I could get our point across. Finch doesn\'92t like being made to look like an idiot, right?\'94\
The other children nodded in agreement.\
\'93So if he trusts me then I can suggest changes from the inside and he can make them look like they were his idea!\'94\
Toby thought that was clever. And it was even possible. Maybe he really could use his influence with Finch to make all the children\'92s lives better. \'93For a start, I could get him to stop using the strap so much.\'94\
Philip nodded. \'93That would be good.\'94 Philip was the one who seemed to get the strap most.\
Esme turned to look at Toby. \'93You could find out things about him.\'94\
\'93Could I?\'94 asked Toby, unsure of what she was getting at.\
\'93Yes,\'94 she continued. \'93You could find out what he\'92s really up to.\'94\
Everyone looked at Esme, suddenly curious about what she meant. This is one of the things that Esme did. Everyone would be talking about something, or arguing, and she would cut across everyone and say something that made you see everything in a different, fresh way.\
Everyone was quiet and still,\'a0waiting for her to speak. \
"There's something about him, and his wife, that just doesn't add up."\
\'93You\'92re right about that Esme.\'94 said Robin, \'93For a man of God he doesn\'92t have much good in him.\'94\
\'93You\'92re right Robin.\'94 said Esme, \'93If you were going to want to run an orphanage you\'92d think it would be easier if you liked children. And he doesn\'92t like children. Not in the way Mr Cape used to.\'94\
They all went quiet for a moment, remembering Mr Cape, the Headmaster before Finch. He was a kind and enthusiastic man. It was Cape who had broken all the rules about keeping boys and girls separate and set up the attic dorm so that Esme and Toby could be in the same room together when they came out of the parish nursery. Cape said it would be \'91inhuman\'92 to break them apart. He had then selected some of the more \'91special\'92 orphans and put them all together. Then one day about two years ago, without any announcement, Finch had stood before them at breakfast and told them that Cape had given up on them and that the parish had decided they needed a firmer hand.\
\'93Good old Cape.\'94 said Vera.\
\'93I was looking at the photo of the Finchs on their wedding day,\'94 said Toby, \'93and it seems to me they haven\'92t been married very long. Mrs Finch was wearing a shirt she wears now, and it still looks new. I think they were married just before they took over the orphanage.\'94\
\'93And why would anyone want to marry Finch?\'94 said Vera, a shudder of disgust running through her.\
\'93Or Bertie.\'94 said Phillip, \'93She\'92s a fright.\'94\
\'93The same reason anyone marries anyone.\'94 said Robin, \'93They\'92ve got a lot in common.\'94\
\'93They seem so different.\'94 said Esme, \'93He\'92s thin as a rake, she\'92s built like a church. He\'92s mean and clever and weasley, she\'92s stupid and stubborn as an ox.\'94\
\'93It must be something else, a shared belief.\'94 said Robin.\
\'93It\'92s not religion, obviously.\'94 sniped Robin. \
Esme sat up on her bed. \'93A shared belief. Exactly Toby. It can\'92t just be that they\'92re both horrible people, no one goes around thinking \'91I\'92m a disgusting human being, I have to find someone as disgusting as myself to marry\'92. I think they got married because they do have something in common, and it\'92s something they both must really love.\'94 \
\'93And it\'92s not us.\'94 said Vera.\
\'93No.\'94 said Esme, \'93What\'92s the thing that could make you marry someone and do a job you obviously hated while pretending to be a man of God?\'94\
\'93Pots of money.\'94 said Robin.\
\'93Not money.\'94 said Toby, \'93There can\'92t be any money in working for the Church. It has to be something more than that, something that you would sacrifice your own happiness for.\'94\
\'93And what would that be?\'94 asked Robin.\
Before could answer a sound they hadn\'92t heard for many years cut through the room. It was the urgent call of the air raid siren, the sound that said danger was on the way. Death was going to fall from the sky.}