{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\f0\fs24 \cf0 For a moment no one knew what to do. They all looked at each other in surprise - how could there be an air raid so soon?\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Vera was the first one to snap back to reality. \'93Downstairs, now!\'94 she yelled, jumping up from her bed.\
They quickly grabbed their warm clothes and jackets and spilled out the door. Within two minutes they had corkscrewed down the main staircase and joined the cram of children in the basement.\
The drill was that each dorm called out their name when they were all in the basement and Braithwaite ticked it off on a blackboard with chalk. Esme shouted "Attic!" as they all tumbled in. When the names of the eight other dorms were called out a couple of the older boys pulled at the massive wooden doors until they slammed shut, then barred them from the inside with heavy slats of iron.\
\
It wasn\'92t nice down there. The basement had a dirt floor and the walls were the stone foundations of the orphanage, roughly filled in with rubble and bits of old brick. The heavy beams that supported the floor of the dining room above them were only a few inches above your head when you stood up.\
There was no fire and only a couple of kerosene lamps hung from the beams for light. The wooden benches were low and narrow and the children were rammed shoulder to shoulder, shivering and instantly uncomfortable. Their breaths clouded in the cold, damp air as they listened as hard as they could for rockets.\
Finch, Bertie, Braithwaite and Collins all sat around a table at one end of the basement. They had their own lamp and thick fur blankets draped over their shoulders and knees. Finch read a book, one of his thrillers, and chewed on a chicken leg while his wife embroidered a sampler. They could have been on a picnic. Braithwaite and Collins, both of whom seemed old as rock, chatted to themselves and laughed quietly, the pungent fumes from their pipes stinging the children's nostrils. \
\
Toby knew there was something weird about Finch, something about what he was saying yesterday afternoon, but he had no idea what it was. What had Esme noticed about him? He whispered to Esme, \'93What did you mean about Finch?\'94\
\'93He\'92s hiding something,\'94 said Esme. \'93He has a secret.\'94\
\'93A secret?\'94 \
\'93Yes.\'94 She looked at Toby, her face shadowy in the low flickering candle light. \'93But I can\'92t tell you why I think that. It\'92s just\'85\'94\
\'93Yes?\'94 Toby encouraged her to keep going.\
\'93It\'92s the way he looks at things.\'94\
\'93Really?\'94 That didn\'92t seem like much to go on.\
Esme screwed up her face. \'93I can\'92t explain it, it\'92s like he\'92s greedy. Greedy and impatient, like he\'92s waiting for something.\'94\
Toby looked at Finch. He was lost in his book, gnawing on the chicken, his narrow nose quivering above the white flesh. It wasn\'92t an attractive sight, and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://17BD3522-41A6-41B1-9736-080C1B578680"}}{\fldrslt Finch was obviously mad, but Toby couldn\'92t see anything sinister in it.\
Suddenly Toby knew what it was that Finch and Bertie were working for. A New World Order. Isn\'92t that what Finch had said?\
}}\
He was about to say something to Esme when the hubbub of chatter in the basement was cut through with a horrible sound. \
It was a grating high-pitched whine, a sound that felt like it was inside you rather than high above and as it got closer and closer it seemed to get further into your head.\
Toby clasped his hands to his ears but it made no difference. This was much worse than sound of the V2 rockets that had come over earlier in the war. These were louder, more intense. The sound kept building until it seemed to drown his senses - it really felt like it was going to land on top of them.\
Toby looked around and saw the looks of terror and disbelief on the children's faces. Then he looked at the adult table.\
The gardener and cook also looked scared, but Finch and Bertie were different. They were transfixed by the sound, like everyone else, but instead of looking scared they looked thrilled. They looked like they were enjoying themselves.\
\
After what seemed like minutes but could only have been seconds a great, noiseless shudder passed beneath them, the shock wave of the rocket hitting the earth. It was followed quickly by the terrible, deafening sound of the explosion as it\'92s payload of high explosive went off. The impact seemed to be right beside them but Toby realised the fact that he was hearing it meant they weren\'92t dead and that the rocket must have landed close by, but not close enough to cause them any damage.\
After ten seconds of violent shaking the earth stopped shifting beneath their feet and the sound slowly ebbed away into an eerie silence.\
Toby looked again at Finch and Bertie. They were sharing a look, a look of happiness. Finch reached out and took his wife\'92s hand and patted it with his other. Toby had never seen Finch be kind or affectionate to Bertie before. Esme was right. There was something weird about Finch and his wife, something to do with this New World Order. And now he was honour-bound to find out what it was.\
The rockets kept coming for another hour and, although they all strained and sweated through each one, none of the sixteen more rockets that fell on London that night made it anywhere near Walthamstow.\
\
\
When the all-clear sounded they made their way back up to the dorm. Even though it was past midnight it was impossible to sleep. Instead they talked long into the night, wondering about the war, about the new rockets, about how it was impossible that the Germans would invade and how they would be saved. Somehow.\
\'93I'm not so sure.\'94 said Toby. \'93The Air Force must have been trying everything it could to stop the rockets, but they still got through. More will come, perhaps many more, until London is on its knees.\'94\
Toby's gloomy statement was followed by a deep silence that was only broken by the sad, soft sound of Vera sobbing.\
\'93Of course,\'94 said Toby, trying to lighten the mood. \'93What do I know?\'94\
\'93Nothing.\'94 said Philip.\
\'93Nothing at all.\'94 said Esme, her voice lacking conviction.\
The silence lengthened, as if they were all asleep. But none of the them slept for hours, not until their need for sleep had won a battle with their racing minds, quelling the fire of nerves and worry with its welcome and soothing darkness.\
\
The morning papers were full of the raids. It was too early to be making casualty lists but many hundreds were feared dead. There was a quickly drawn map too, the location of each bomb was marked. Most of them fell down near the docks.\
Robin read aloud as the others ate their porridge and apple. \'93The Walthamstow Rocket fell at Low Hall Farm and destroying all the farm buildings and severely damaging many of the streets around. Broken glass was reported as far away as Hackney to the West and South Woodford in the East. It is thought the rocket might have been aimed at the aircraft factories in the Lee Valley.\'94\
\'93The rocket landed a mile away from us.\'94 said June.\
\'93It must have been huge!\'94 said Vera, her eyes wide in awe. \'93It felt like it was in the next street.\'94\
\'93Thank God that it wasn't,\'94 replied Robin, \'93or we might look like this.\'94 He let the mushy porridge slide off his spoon and plop into the bowl.\'94\
Vera put her hand to her mouth as if she might throw up.\
\'93At least it would be quick.\'94 said Robin. This didn't comfort Vera, who stood up suddenly and walked quickly to the toilets.\
\'93She's going to fall apart.\'94 said Robin unsympathetically, then helping himself to Vera's porridge.\
\'93She feels things more than we do. We have to help her.\'94 said June, pulling the porridge back off Robin. The two of them tugged at it until Robin relented with a scowl. June pushed the bowl back into the centre of the table.\
\'93It doesn't make sense to waste food, specially not now.\'94 said Robin, still truculent.\
Esme looked at Toby. He knew what she was thinking. The way Robin had said\'a0
\i specially not now. 
\i0 There used to be a better time, called
\i \'a0then
\i0 , but they were living in a harder time, a time called\'a0
\i now
\i0 . One rocket had signalled the coming of a whole new era, and 
\i now
\i0  meant danger, real danger.\
Toby nodded to his sister, showing that he understood what she was thinking.\
As they sat quietly eating, letting Robin's comment settle, Toby looked at them all, one by one.\
June looked almost normal, her round face still shone like a bowl of milk, but every now and then Toby saw her steady blue eyes give an involuntary twitch. It was her nervous sign. Unconsciously, she tried to wipe it away with the back of her hand.\
Phillip just looked blank, like someone had hit him and he was waiting to see how angry he felt. Robin, his narrow face looking even more pinched than normal, chewed on nothing, his eyes distant and metallic. Esme just kept looking at Toby, her eyes sad but also expectant. What did she want from him? What was Toby meant to do about all this?\
Vera made her way back to the table. She was still looking shaky as she sat down but had regained some composure.\
Robin was onto her immediately. \'93Do you want this?\'94\
Vera shook her head.\
\'93Anyone else?\'94\
This time no one challenged him, so Robin snatched the bowl and dug his spoon into it like he was digging for gold. He finished it in a matter of seconds before pushing it back into the middle of the table and giving a loud, wet burp.\
Esme sighed.\
\'93Pardon me.\'94 said Robin, not really meaning it.\
Toby cleared his throat and looked around all of them, making sure\'a0that\'a0he had their attention.\
\'93Things have changed. We don\'92t know how difficult it's going to get but it looks bad, very bad. The only chance we have to get through it is to stick together. It\'92s not like we can look to our parents for help, is it?\'94\
No one said anything. Robin shook his head and muttered. Sometimes Robin said that his parents had been tricked into giving him away and that one day they would come and save him. He wasn\'92t claiming that now.\
\'93So that\'92s settled then.\'94 said Toby, taking the silence for agreement. \'93We stick together." He continued, "We may not be able to do much about the rockets but there is something else we can do. Something closer to home. Something to do with Finch and Bertie.\'94\
Now he really had their attention. \
\'93We\'92re going to find out what they\'92re doing.\'94 he whispered, adding confidently, \'93Here\'92s the plan.\'94}