{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Finch kept Toby on bell duty for days on end. Only the Walthamstow Reds knew Toby's plan, so all the other orphans thought that he was just being a suck and they stopped talking to him. Toby didn\'92t blame them, he would have thought the same thing himself, but it was horrible to be thought a traitor. But he wanted Finch to think that everything was fine, so he kept smiling and ringing the bell and pretending that it was a great privilege, all the time waiting for the moment to spring his plan.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 He suffered for another whole week until, in the middle of the afternoon, the air raid siren went off again. \
\
Toby was working in the kitchen, peeling a hundred small potatoes and dropping them in a large pot of cold water for the evening meal. It was hard work - you had to concentrate to get the paring knife at the right angle to take off the skin, but it was also repetitive and the pile of potatoes didn\'92t seem to be getting any smaller. \
He knew Mr and Mrs Finch were in the drawing room having afternoon tea because he had taken it to them ten minutes earlier - another privilege that Finch granted him. So he was in the perfect position at just the right time. Which was annoying as a bit of him wished he didn\'92t have to carry out his plan.\
\
Toby dried his hands, taking ages over it so Collins\'92 had time to stub out his pipe and usher the other children out of the kitchen. Toby started to follow them, but instead of taking the back stairs down to the basement, he popped his head into the main corridor and listened. \
After a short while the drawing room door opened and Finch and Bertie bustled along it. Soon Tony could hear Bertie stamping down the front toward the shelter. \
Children from all around the orphanage were surging around Toby now, silent and urgent. Toby heard the shouts as they called out the room names. One of the Reds called out 'Attic' and soon after that he heard the sound of the cellar doors being barred from the inside. \
There was no way into the shelter now, he was on his own out here.\
\
Suddenly he felt someone grab his shoulder. He jumped with fright. Someone had found him out. Turning to see who it was, he was surprised to see Robin\'92s grinning face.\
\'93Couldn\'92t let you do this alone Toby.\'94 Robin said.\
Toby sighed. \'93You\'92re an idiot. They\'92re sure to notice two of us missing.\'94\
Robin laughed. \'93No they won\'92t and even if they do, they'll be hoping that we both get one in the neck, won't they?\'94\
Toby looked at Robin, thinking that he was mad. But he was also glad to have someone with him. \'93Come on then.\'94 he said, indicating the stairs.\
Together they crept upstairs to the first floor and around to the back of the house, to the door to Finch\'92s study. Toby tried the handle, but it was locked.\
\'93Weren\'92t expecting that, were you?\'94 whispered Robin.\
\'93No, not at all.\'94 said Toby, shaking his head. \'93But then I\'92ve never been in there without called in by Finch.\'94\
\'93Well that\'92s the end of that bright idea then.\'94 said Toby, bitterly.\
Robin smiled at him and, dipping his hand into his pocket, brought out a small hooked piece of wire. \'93Oh no it\'92s not.\'94\
Toby watched astonished as Robin worked the wire into the lock. After a couple of twists and turns Robin gently pushed on the handle and the door clicked opened.\
\'93Brilliant!\'94 said Toby, sounding more enthusiastic than he felt.\
\'93After you, Sir.\'94 said Robin, pushing the door open for Toby.\
\
At that moment they heard the first rocket come in. Even though they were expecting the noise they were struck dumb. It was even louder outside the cellar. Louder and higher pitched, as if someone were playing your spine like a violin. Toby gritted his teeth and walked into Finch\'92s study, doing his best to ignore the approaching scream.\
He\'92d been in here often enough, so he knew the layout of the room. A big old desk and chair in front of a bank of cabinets and then, near the window, the two easy chairs and the table where he had sat watching Finch dunk his biscuits a couple of weeks ago. The thought of it still made Toby\'92s skin crawl.\
\'93What are we looking for Toby?\'94\
\'93Strange papers, odd keepsakes, anything unusual. There must be something in here that will give him away.\'94\
Robin nodded and turned to the large bureau that was stuffed with papers and notebooks, the most obvious place to start looking. \
Toby started with Finch\'92s desk. It was old and large with a leather top and two banks of drawers down the side. On the top was an unused typewriter, a couple of pencils, a silver fountain pen, some bottles of ink, blotting paper and a large desk diary.\
He started with the diary, which was filled with Finch\'92s inky scratchings. He spent ages reading as much of it as he could but it was all boring household stuff, about how much was spent on food. The only thing that caught his interest was the fact that Finch wrote down all the punishments he gave. he could see his own name amongst them. His name, followed by the number of lashes and a scrawled note, most often 
\i impertinence
\i0  which seemed like an adult way to say 
\i I felt like it
\i0 . \
Once Toby had read the diary he went through the drawers but they were filled with receipts, wage slips and bills. Nothing was ordered, all the different types of papers were just rammed together, like he has just opened a drawer at random, thrust the paper in without looking, and slammed it closed again.\
Again there was nothing out of the ordinary. Toby recognised all the people who sent in the bills; the local butchers, The East London Electricity Company, the coal man. \
In fact the only thing that struck Toby as unusual was that there was nothing out of the ordinary - no photos of family members, no personal diary, no notebooks with ideas in them, no collections of cigarette cards, nothing that would make you think that Finch was interested in anything or had a life outside his job.\
Even the orphans, who had no money at all, had managed to find a few keepsakes for themselves over the years. Toby had an old pipe tobacco tin that Collins had given him and in it were some really old coins, a piece of white porcelain with a part of a picture of a cow and a cart piled high with hay on it in blue, and a clay pipe in one piece. He\'92d found all of these gardening on the allotment. Toby loved those small things, even though they were worthless, because they gave him something which he had never been able to claim - a past.  \
But Finch looked like he didn\'92t want to have a past. Or didn\'92t want anyone to know about it.\
\
Finishing with the desk Toby went to the bookcase and started along the shelves.\
Every now and then Toby would quietly ask Robin if he had seen anything, but Robin always shook his head. Then they would hear a rocket coming closer and they would pause, wondering if they would have to take shelter under the desk. Not that a wooden desk would help much if it was a direct hit. Not even being in the cellar would help in a direct hit.\
Toby kept going along the bookcases, carefully picking up each book, flicking through the pages and then putting it back in the shelf. Most of the books were old and hadn\'92t been opened for years so they had a thick layer of dust on the top. They must have been books that came with the job. There were also novels and poetry, old stuff, the kind of thing that Toby thought no one would ever read. Strangely there was dust on all the books that Finch probably should be reading too, all the books on Christianity and education, the kind of books that Mr Cage would have read. Even the hymn books and  prayer books were thickly coated in dust.\
Robin was right, Finch was not much of a man of God after all.\
Hold on, thought Toby, that\'92s odd. Of course, the Bible. He remembered that when he\'92s had the meeting with Finch that Finch had a large Bible on his lap. \
Toby went over to the easy chairs and the occasional table under the window. There was the Bible, large and old and not at all dusty, laid out on top of the table. He picked it up and started to flip through the thin, delicate pages. It wasn\'92t until he turned the last page he saw anything unusual. Concealed right at the end were several newspaper cuttings. Toby squinted to read them and took a moment to realise that the language they were printed in was not English.\
\'93Robin, come and look at this.\'94\
Robin stopped what he was doing and came over, practically grabbing the Bible out of Toby\'92s hands.\
\'93You know what language that is don\'92t you?\'94 asked Toby.\
Robin, you was not very good at writing, shook his head.\
\'93That\'92s German.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93Jeepers!\'94 said Robin. Then, less sure of himself, he continued. \'93Does that prove anything?\'94\
\'93No,\'94 Toby agreed, \'93it doesn\'92t mean anything by itself. But he hasn\'92t read anything else in the room. All the other books are covered in dust.\'94\
\'93So he\'92s not much of a reader.\'94 Robin shrugged.\
Toby spelt it out for Robin. \'93If Finch reads German then he could be a sympathiser.\'94\
Robin looked confused. \'93Why would an English Headmaster sympathise with the Germans?\'94\
Toby remembered back to Finch\'92s mad ranting of the other day. All that guff about belonging and being proved right in the end and the New World Order. \
\'93An Englishman, even a Curate, would sympathise with the Germans if they were a Nazi.\'94\
Robin blinked rapidly trying to take in what Toby was saying. \'93Finch a Nazi? But that\'92s impossible. What would he be doing running our orphanage?\'94\
\'93That\'92s a very good question.\'94 said Toby, shrugging.\
They both tried to think of a reason why a Nazi would bother with them, but they were flummoxed. Suddenly it seemed like a stupid idea - how could Finch, the Headmaster of an orphanage in Walthamstow and a Curate in the Church of England, also be a Nazi Party member?\
While they were standing there the all clear siren sounded.\
\'93Let\'92s get out of here.\'94 said Toby, placing the Bible carefully back on the table.\
Robin nodded and they both scurried through the door.\
As Toby pulled it closed he realised something. \'93You can\'92t re-lock that door, can you?\'94 he asked Robin.\
Robin looked at the door, realising what Toby was driving at and shook his head.\
\'93He\'92ll know someone has been here.\'94 said Robin.\
\'93He will.\'94 said Toby, \'93But he won\'92t know who.\'94\
Robin ducked back into the room and came back out with a silver fountain pen.\
\'93What\'92s that for?\'94\
\'93He\'92ll think someone was nicking something to sell down the market.\'94\
Toby scowled, \'93That\'92s a really expensive pen, he\'92ll be furious.\'94\
\'93Yes!\'94 said Robin, \'93That\'92s the point. It\'92s called a diversion. If he\'92s worrying about the pen he won\'92t look for another reason why someone would be in his study.\'94 \
Toby didn\'92t think it was such a good idea, but he wasn\'92t about to try and make Robin put it back.\
Robin took Toby\'92s silence as approval and made off down the hall, back towards the stream of children who would be coming out of the shelter.\
Toby wondered if he\'92d ever see that pen again. He thought that Robin probably would sell it down the market. And what did it matter if he did, Toby had something more important to figure out. They had found out something about Finch that pointed in one direction, but it wasn\'92t enough to prove anything.\
They would have to find a way to dig deeper.}