{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Toby was back in Finch\'92s study much sooner than he expected. It had only been an hour since the all-clear had been given. \
This time there was no tea on offer.\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Finch stood looking out the window, his hands twisting and grasping each other behind his back as he spoke. \'93Do you know anything about the break in to my study, Toby?\'94\
\'93Your study was broken into Mr Finch? That\'92s terrible.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93Yes,\'94 said Finch, his voice low and mean. \'93It is terrible. Terrible and unforgivable.\'94 He turned to Toby, his face a picture of tension and anger, \'93I will not be mocked, not by a bunch of children.\'94\
\'93How do you know it was a child?\'94\
\'93It must have been a child. I trust everyone else.\'94\
Toby wondered if that meant all of the adults were in on Finch\'92s secret. Maybe they were all Nazis. It would make sense for Bertie to be a Nazi if Finch was, but Collins and Braithwaite too? They seemed as East End and Royalist as it came. They were always going on about immigrants and refugees and blaming them for the lack of food, though it seemed to Toby that the real problem was the war that was forcing people out of their countries, not the the people themselves.\
\'93Well then,\'94 said Toby carefully, \'93which child? Perhaps I could keep an eye on them?\'94\
\'93Yes, you will keep an eye on everyone Toby,\'94 said Finch with a nasty, lop-sided smile, \'93but I was thinking of something else. Maybe a test.\'94\
\'93A test.\'94 Toby smiled. \'93What kind of test?\'94\
\'93A loyalty test.\'94 \
Toby could feel Finch\'92s lizard eyes boring right into him.  \
\'93That\'92s a great idea.\'94 said Toby, trying to sound unconcerned.\
Finch smiled, but remained quiet, forcing Toby to say something. \
\'93Which child should we give the loyalty test to Mr Finch?\'94 he asked, knowing\'a0that\'a0he might not like the answer.\
\'93I thought we\'92d start with you.\'94 said Finch.\
Toby did everything he could to not twitch or wince. \'93Me?\'94\
\'93Yes Toby, you.\'94\
Toby did his best to act innocent and confused, \'93It\'92s unlikely that I would break into your study.\'94\
\'93Is it?\'94 Finch asked. \'93Why is that?\'94\
\'93Because\'85\'94 said Toby, trying to think quickly, \'93because I could get access anytime, couldn\'92t I? I\'92m in here now. You invite me in all the time.\'94\
\'93I do.\'94 said Finch, \'93But if you wanted to steal something\'85\'94\
\'93What?!\'94 said Toby, acting outraged, \'93Someone stole something off you?\'94\
\'93They did Toby. And yet\'85\'94 \
Finch looked around the room, at the shelves and the bible. Robin\'92s trick of stealing the pen had worked, but Toby could see that Finch thought something else had happened.\
\'93That\'92s not what I am worried about, not really.\'94 said Finch, snapping his head back to look at Toby.\
\'93I can find out who stole the pen.\'94 said Toby.\
\'91Who said anything about a pen?\'94 said Finch.\
Toby felt like his stomach had leapt into his mouth. Finch hadn\'92t mentioned a pen. Looking at Finch\'92s desk Toby, where the pen had been, Toby said, \'93Your pen is always on your desk, right by the ink jar. Anyone could see that it\'92s gone.\'94 \
Toby forced himself to look back at Finch. \'93It\'92s obvious that the pen was stolen.\'94\
Finch was uncharacteristically still. His eyes were unblinking. Toby thought he was looking at a different man, someone much cleverer and meaner than Finch. Maybe Toby had misjudged him. If he had it was going to end badly.\
\'93Arms up!\'94 barked Finch.\
Toby raised his arms. Finch quickly frisked him, running his fidgety hands over Toby\'92s pockets, feeling along the hems of his clothes.\
\'93March!\'94 said Finch.\
\'93Where to?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93Attic dorm.\'94 said Finch, pushing Toby in front of him.\
Toby had no idea what Robin had done with the pen, but he really hoped it wasn\'92t hidden it in the dorm. \
\
Finch worked in a fury. He was pulling the mattresses off beds, tearing sheets and blankets off them and dumping them in a big pile in the middle of the room. With his arms flailing and sweat dripping off his forehead he looked like some kind of mad steam engine that had gotten out of control. Once he\'92d finished with the mattresses and tipped the beds upside down he went at the children\'92s dressers, pulling out drawers, running his hands through them and then tipping the contents into the rapidly growing pile of stuff that was building in the middle of the room.\
Toby watched, horrified at the violence Finch was showing. He couldn\'92t look shocked, or say anything, or do anything other than stand still, but he was scared. Scared of what Finch was capable of. And if Finch found the pen anywhere in the dorm then Toby would be in big trouble. Toby had to force himself to breath slowly and steadily and not give anything away - the only way through this was to pretend ignorance. \
He didn\'92t even laugh when Finch howled with pain and clutched his hand. Finch swore,  pulled a couple of pins from his hand and threw Vera\'92s sewing tin out of the window. \
It took less than half an hour for Finch to trash their room. Once he finished he stood amongst the wreckage, breathing heavily. For a moment he looked sad and vulnerable, like one of the small children might if they had lost a precious toy. \
Then he looked at Toby and shouted, \'93Study!\'94\
 \
\'93I think it\'92s time you did some leadership training.\'94 said Finch, looking at Toby with cold eyes.\
\'93All right.\'94 said Toby, sounding much more confident than he felt, \'93Let\'92s do it - fire away!\'94\
\'93You want to do it now?\'94 asked Finch.\
\'93No time like the present.\'94\
Finch turned and faced out the window, looking down on the kitchen garden where some of the orphans would be working. \'93Now let\'92s see, who\'92s been a naughty girl then?\'94\
His hand wandered over the window, picking out the girls below.\
With a sudden jolt of horror Toby realised that Esme, June and Vera would be among the dozen or so girls working on the herbs.\
\'93This one.\'94 said Finch, pointing and turning towards him. \'93Go and get that girl will you? There\'92s a good chap.\'94\
\
Toby felt sick as he walked down into the garden and tapped Esme on the shoulder. Her smile froze when she saw his face.\
\'93What\'92s wrong?\'94 she asked.\
\'93Everything.\'94 said Toby talking very quietly, \'93Finch suspects it was me who broke into his room, and now he\'92s giving me a loyalty test.\'94 He couldn\'92t look her in the eye. \'93A loyalty test that involves you. I don't know what it is.\'94\
Esme nodded and looked serious. \'93I\'92ll play the game, don\'92t worry.\'94\
Toby held her hand as they walked together back up the stairs to Finch's study. \
\
Finch motioned Esme into the middle of the room and then handed Toby his strap. It was an a long tail of tough old leather, ugly and disgusting to hold. Toby knew how much it hurt to have it bought down on your palm. \
\'93Now Esme, did you go to bed late last night?\'94 said Finch, inventing a crime on the spot, as he often did.\
\'93Yes Mr Finch, as it happens I did go to sleep a little later than I should have last night.\'94\
\'93That\'92s worth the strap, isn\'92t it?\'94 said Finch to Toby.\
\'93Yes sir, one strap, at most.\'94 said Toby, looking Esme in the eye as best he could.\
\'93I agree," said Finch, adding, "but let\'92s not bother with that.\'94\
Toby let out a sigh of relief and smiled at Esme. She shook her head very slightly - only her brother would see a gesture that small from her. She was telling him it wasn\'92t over yet.\
\'93Let\'92s ask Esme a far more interesting question," said Finch, "let\'92s ask her if she knows who broke into my study today.\'94\
\'93Yes, Mr Finch, that is a much better question.\'94 said Toby.\
\'93So ask it, boy.\'94\
Toby looked Esme squarely in the face. \'93Do you know who broke into Mr Finch\'92s study?\'94\
\'93No, I do not.\'94 said Esme, her voice earnest and strong.\
\'93Very good.\'94 said Finch. \'93Now ask her six more times, and every time she tells you she doesn't know, give her the strap.\'94\
It was the hardest thing he had ever done in his life. The only reason he could get through it was because he knew Esme would be furious with him if he gave himself up.\
Esme was a brick. She didn\'92t cry or shout or even smile, she just answered six times that she didn\'92t know who it was and then waited for the whish of the strap as it sliced the air. \
After the last time lash Toby looked at Finch, making sure to control the new hatred he felt towards him. Finch wasn\'92t smiling or sneering as Toby expected. He looked impressed, like the twins had surprised him.\
\'93I don\'92t think she knows anything, Mr Finch.\'94 Toby said.\
\'93I would have to disagree with you, Toby.\'94 replied Finch, his voice unusually calm. \'93I think she knows everything. I think you both know everything.\'94 Finch turned to look out the window, speaking quietly to himself, \'93It doesn\'92t matter now. It\'92s all over and we have won.\'94\
Finch stayed staring out the window, looking up into the sky, as if he were looking to God for an answer. After a couple of minutes it seemed like Finch had even forgotten they were there. \
Toby looked at Esme, who was holding her hand under her armpit and looking very red in the face. \'93May we go, Mr Finch?\'94 Toby asked, keen to get Esme out of there.\
\'93What?\'94 Finch looked back from the window and seemed surprised that they were still there. He waved his hand at them, then moved towards the desk, muttering something to himself.\
Toby and Esme walked calmly to the door and closed it behind them.\
\'93Sorry.\'94 he said, though the words were barely adequate.\
\'93Don\'92t worry,\'94 she said, \'93there\'92s nothing I wouldn\'92t do for my younger brother.\'94\
He started to say that he was the oldest and she laughed at him. He laughed too and together they walked back down to the kitchen garden, ready to work on the vegetables and help prepare the meal for the evening.\
\
When she saw Esme\'92s hand, Vera went\'a0over\'a0to the lavender plot and, careful not to be seen by Braithwaite, stripped the leaves off one sprig, then disappeared into the kitchen. A few minutes later she came back with a muslin rag soggy with oil and crushed lavender leaves.\
\'93Put this on your hand whenever you get the chance, it will help.\'94 said Vera, pressing the bag into the welts on Esme's hand.\
\'93Thanks Vera.\'94 Esme gratefully closed her sore hand around it.\
\'93How come you never did that for me when I got the strap?\'94 said Toby.\
\'93Because you\'92re a boy, idiot.\'94 said Vera, scowling.\
\
As he stabbed his fork into the earth, lifting weeds and slamming them into a wheel barrow, Toby felt angry. \
No, he felt enraged. Finch was more than a bully, he was evil. What man would make a child strap their own sister? \
Toby shook with hatred and he imagined going straight back up stairs and punching him as hard as he could. Of course that would be a pointless gesture and Toby forced himself to keep working - he would be no good to anyone if he was put in solitary.\
After half an hour he had calmed down and after another hour he was enjoying doing the gardening again. \
Finch seemed to think that gardening was some kind of punishment, but Toby and Esme both loved it. It was a kind of everyday magic to work the earth and have vegetables slowly rise from it when they came into season. He never tired of the small kitchen garden where the herbs and delicate plants lived. Just looking at the fresh greenery reminded him that there were natural cycles that governed their lives, something bigger than their own small cares.\
He often thought that he would like to be a gardener when he got out of the orphanage. He could do an apprenticeship, maybe in one of the orchards further up the Lee Valley. He imagined himself warm in the sun, looking out on a glade of apple trees, their branches swaying like happy children holding their arms up in a gentle breeze.\
And it was while he was relaxed and thinking about nothing much that he had an idea, a way to get Finch to show if he was a Nazi or not.\
\'93Heil Speer,\'94 he muttered under his breath.\
}