{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \'93Heil Speer!\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 The shout came loud and clear across the room, as planned. \
All the other children in the dining room looked at the child who said it in horror, but Toby had his eyes fixed on just one person. Finch. The next second would reveal everything.\
\
Last night the Walthamstow Reds had until dawn. First they had had to clean up their room, which took hours. \
Finch had managed to break some of the few things that they owned, pages from Phillip\'92s comics had burst from their staples and were littered around the room. June\'92s textbooks were out of order and she spent ages lining them up on her dresser again. They all had to find and fold all their clothes and remake the beds.\
Toby promised Vera he would sneak out later and retrieve what he could from her sewing kit, which was now scatted all over the front lawn.\
No one was hard on Toby or Robin. Everyone just got on with restoring order and, if anyone had any anger they hid it well.\
Toby didn\'92t ask Robin where the pen was. He didn\'92t want to know. \
\
After order was restored Toby had called the Reds together and jokingly called it a War Council. Robin dragged their work table and chairs into the middle of the room, lit candles for it, and the six of them took their places around it, their faces dancing in the flickering yellow light. June had a spare notebook and she wrote \'91Walthamstow Reds\'92 War Council\'92 on the front of it in pencil. It was typical of June that the apostrophe was in exactly the right place and her writing was so neat it looked like she used a ruler to line it up. \
Toby\'92s plan was simple, it only took a couple of minutes to tell them what it was. They all agreed it was the thing to do. June wrote the date on a page, then added \'93Secret decision one: Agreed by all.\'94 \
The problems started when they tried to decide who was going to do it.\
Toby was ruled out immediately by Esme. \'93It can\'92t be Toby. If he does it, Finch will know that he had found him out. Toby would go straight to Solitary.\'94\
\'93Agreed.\'94 said Vera. \'93Not Toby.\'94\
\'93I agree too.\'94 said Robin.\
\'93Well I don\'92t!\'94 said Toby. \'93I\'92m already in trouble, so it might as well be me.\'94\
\'93Let\'92s vote on that then.\'94 said Esme, coolly looking at Toby who was about to protest again. \'93It\'92s a war council, isn\'92t it? We should all have a say.\'94 \
Toby shrugged. \'93I guess so.\'94\
\'93So let\'92s talk it through and then vote.\'94 said Esme.\
No one disagreed.\
\'93Okay,\'94 said Vera, \'93I think it should be one of the girls.\'94\
\'93What?!\'94 said Toby, outraged at the idea.\
\'93Why not?\'94 said Esme. \'93Girls can do anything that boys can.\'94\
\'93They can, it\'92s true.\'94 said Robin, a surprising thing for him to say, thought Toby, since Robin never said anything nice about girls, ever. \'93They can do anything that boys can. With one exception - they shouldn\'92t do anything important.\'94\
Vera threw a balled up pair of socks at him. Robin flicked them away from his face at the last minute, laughing at her.\
\'93Are you going to listen to my 
\i reasoning
\i0 , Robin?\'94 Esme said calmly, like she was talking to a baby.\
Robin shrugged, his fun over for now.\
\'93Tell us your reasoning Esme.\'94 said Phillip. \
\'93Thanks Phillip.\'94 said Esme, acknowledging his help. \'93I think it should be a girl because Finch won\'92t hurt them. Well, not as much.\'94\
Phillip nodded \'93That makes sense.\'94\
\'93I wouldn\'92t count on that.\'94 said Toby, remembering the sight of Finch crashing through the room like tornado.\
\'93It should be me.\'94 said Esme.\
Toby found himself standing up suddenly and wagging his finger at his sister. \'93No! You\'92ve already suffered enough!\'94 He pointed at her hand, the lavender bag still in it.\
Esme shrugged. \'93It\'92s just pain.\'94\
\'93Just pain?!\'94 gasped Toby. \'93No!\'94\
\'93I\'92ll do it then.\'94 chipped in June, as if she was offering to get someone a piece of toast from the rack at breakfast.\
\'93No,\'94 said Toby, shaking his head, "not you June."\
\'93Definitely not.\'94 said Robin, backing Toby up.\
\'93Why not?\'94 asked June, her beaky face creased with confusion.\
\'93Because you are a terrible liar.\'94 said Esme.\
\'93No I am not!\'94\
Everyone laughed then, everyone but June, who looked offended.\
Esme spoke in a soft voice, \'93June you are the smartest child in the orphanage by a country mile, but your skills don\'92t extend to deception. If anyone asks you a question you would tell them the absolute truth. Lying is simply not in you.\'94\
\'93Is that true? Really?\'94 asked June, looking for someone to give her an answer. \'93Phillip?\'94\
She asked Phillip because he wasn\'92t much of a liar either. It wasn\'92t that Phillip couldn\'92t lie but he wasn\'92t quick enough to back up a lie with another one. Once you told one lie you usually had to tell a whole pile of others and that required thinking on the spot.\
Phillip closed his eyes, like he didn\'92t want to say anything, like he wanted the problem to go away. When he opened them again everyone was still looking at him.\
He sighed. \'93June you cannot lie. You\'92re even worse than I am.\'94\
\'93That bad?\'94 asked June.\
Phillip nodded and hung his head.\
\'93Well, I can see I\'92m not needed here then!\'94 June, closed her notebook, turned away from the group and flopped down on her bed.\
\'93I\'92ll do it.\'94 whispered Vera. \'93I can lie and I haven\'92t done anything brave yet.\'94 She paused and looked into their faces one by one. \'93And it\'92s about time I did something brave.\'94\
Toby was surprised. He\'92d always thought Vera was just into clothes and what things looked like, but here she was putting herself forward to do something properly brave.\
\'93Let's vote on that.\'94 said Robin. Toby thought he could hear the relief in his voice.\
\'93All right.\'94 said Esme, \'93Who votes in support of Vera doing it?\'94\
Four hands went up. Vera, Esme, Robin and Philip. Toby wasn\'92t going to win this one. He raised his hand too.\
\
So it was Vera who yelled out \'91Heil Speer\'92 at the top of her voice, just as Finch came into the dining room for breakfast, Bertie following close behind.\
A heart beat later, as if by magic, Finch\'92s right hand shot up, his back straightened and he barked \'91Heil Speer\'92 as he gave the Nazi salute to sixty children, his wife, the cook and the gardener.\
A gasp of shock went around the room and everyone seemed to freeze for a moment. It can\'92t have been long, a second or two, but it seemed like forever. Toby, ready for it, had time to look around. \
He saw the look of horror on Bertie\'92s face. He saw the teacup the slack-jawed Collins was holding tilt forward towards the table, a wave of tea leaping into the air. He saw children missing their mouths with their porridge spoons as they turned towards Finch. And he saw the transformation of Finch\'92s face. \
Finch started proud and strong, then there was the shock of the moment when he realised what he\'92d done, followed by the desperate flick of his eyes as he looked around the room to see who had tricked him.\
Toby was glad to see that Vera had already put her hand down and turned to the table. Finch didn't see who had made the salute. What he did see was a sea of outraged children. Everyone knew instantly what it revealed, what it meant. The Anglican Curate who ran the orphanage was a Nazi.\
Finch spun to look at his wife. She waved him away with disgust, like she might dismiss a child who had wet their pants. Silently, shamefully, Finch left the room, leaving his wife to clear up the mess.\
She pulled herself up to her full height and regarded the room. Her usually red face had washed out to white. But she didn\'92t falter.\
\'93Back to your breakfast. And quietly.\'94 was all she said. She didn\'92t need to say it loudly, the room was still dead quiet, but it was obvious that anyone who didn\'92t do exactly what she said would be in for a bad day, if not a bad childhood.\
All the children turned back to their plates of porridge as one and started eating.\
\
\'93I simply don\'92t understand how he could be a traitor. He\'92s English, how could he like the Nazis?\'94 said June under her breath once Bertie had sat down and the normal buzz of children\'92s conversation had started again.\
Toby shrugged. \'93Maybe he\'92s not happy with his lot." he said, "I mean what adult would think looking after us was a fun thing to do with your life?\'94\
\'93Mr Cage liked us.\'94 pointed out Vera.\
\'93He didn't like me very much.\'94 muttered Robin.\
June shot back, \'93There was good reason for that.\'94\
Esme cut them off before they started getting nasty. \'93Come on, we have to stick together, remember?\'94\
\'93Now more than ever.\'94 said Toby, darkly.\
Esme looked at him. She could tell he had something on his mind. \'93What is it Toby?\'94\
He shrugged. \'93Anything could happen, right?\'94\
\'93I still don\'92t understand it.\'94 said June, as if no one else had said anything.\
\'93It\'92s simple,\'94 said Vera. \'93Finch can see what way the wind is blowing. He knows the Germans will be here soon, and he wants to be in with them. What\'92s that called, Esme?\'94\
\'93Collaboration.\'94\
\'93That\'92s it! He\'92s a collaborator.\'94\
June looked at Vera. \'93So what what does that mean for us?\'94\
No one had an answer to that. None of them could see into the future.\
Toby sighed. \'93I\'92ve just figured something out. I feel so stupid.\'94\
\'93What is it Toby?\'94 Vera was looking at him, worried.\
\'93He\'92s been trying to recruit me. He wants me to be a Nazi too.\'94\
\
When the big railway clock they lived by reached eight, Toby stood, walked to the front of the dining room and reached up to the small ship's bell and softly pulled the ringer from one side to the other. As the bells warm sound rippled off the brick walls all the children got up and walked out to their next task. \
Watching them file out of the room with downcast eyes Toby realised that everyone was scared and worried. Deeply worried. The little kids looked like they were on the verge of tears.\
He felt a sudden sense of responsibility. Hadn\'92t it been his idea to expose Finch? Well they had done that and what good had come of it? Nothing. \
Toby had to think of a way to make unmasking Finch worth the effort. Amongst the ongoing tension of the new blitz and the threat of invasion there had to be some good news. And he had better find some, fast.}