{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Every Sunday the whole orphanage walked along Shernall Road, up Church Hill Road and then into St Mary\'92s parish church for the morning service. Finch made them hold hands in pairs, which was embarrassing for the older kids. Toby could hold Esme\'92s hand without feeling stupid but Robin and Vera always walked as far apart as they could manage and didn\'92t even look at each other. June and Phillip looked ridiculous together, Phillip towered over June even though their birthdays were only a couple of weeks apart.\
The strangest pairing was Finch and Bertie. Finch was really tall and Bertie had to reach up a long way to take her husbands hand. And when they walked she took small solid steps while he loped along. Together they looked like a giraffe walking with a hippo. \
It was a relief to get into the church and drop hands.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 All the locals were there and everyone wore their Sunday Best. It was the one event that made the children feel like they belonged to a wider community. People even smiled at them, though Toby always thought they only smiled so they didn\'92t have to actually talk to them.\
The orphans had the worst seats, up the stairs and beside hissing and farting organ, right at the back. The children from the church day school, the children with parents, sat downstairs in tight wooden pews and if any of them looked up towards the orphans their parents would tell them off, like not having parents was a disease they might catch.\
Toby liked the church. It was really old and had some excellent old plaques in it, some with skulls and skeletons and strange old English epitaphs in curly writing about \'91extravagance\'92 and the danger of \'91fins\'92. June told him recently that those long \'91f\'92s, the one\'92s with the tails, were actually pronounced as an \'91s\'92. \
Suddenly the epitaphs made a lot more sense.\
What he was sure about was that those old folks were really scared of the devil, and there was only one way to avoid the devil and hell and that was to obey God and his representative on earth, the vicar.\
\
Pethergrew was talking from the pulpit, giving his weekly sermon. Pethergrew was an old man, at least forty, whose hairline was creeping up his dome and who wore glasses with the thickest lenses Toby had ever seen, like a pair of goggles a pilot would wear. \
Today\'92s sermon was was about unconditional love and about how we should forgive everyone everything instantly. Pethergrew was really wrapped up in his topic, his voice had gone all dreamy and he looked up to heaven a lot. It seemed a strange thing to be talking about, specially when everyone had half an ear out for the air raid siren. Even though the church had a crypt it wasn\'92t very big or very deep. Toby had no doubt that there wouldn't be room for the orphans if a V6 came over.\
Toby was sure they should be worrying more about stopping the evil Germans from invading England than forgiving them. If Toby was the Vicar he would have been talking about how to spot a German plane in the sky, or how to make a better blackout curtain.\
Toby looked over to Finch, who had reappeared this morning, not saying a word to anyone. It seemed that Finch\'92s way of coping with the humiliation of the other day was first to hide away. But it would have looked strange if he had missed church - that would have been noticed. Finch sat quietly as Pethergrew wound up the sermon with a prayer and managed a barely audible \'91amen\'92, but it seemed an effort.\
Twenty minutes later, as the service came to a close and the congregation were shaking hands over the pews and wishing each other well, Toby felt his palms get sweaty. And when it was their turn to get out of their seats and walk back downstairs his legs had a moment when they felt weak and spidery.\
\'93You all right?\'94 asked Esme.\
\'93Good.\'94 said Toby tersely, doing his best to smile.\
She had no idea what he was about to do, none of the other Walthamstow Reds did. Toby knew that broke the rules but this was a risk he needed to take alone.\
\
As they wound down the stairs Toby dropped to the back of the group, letting Esme past him. She looked at him, knowing something was up, but he knelt down and pretended to tie his shoelace. That kept her off his trail.\
He stood up and followed the rest of the children down the stairs but instead of turning right and out onto the path in front of the Church he turned left and joined the throng of the congregation.\
Suddenly amongst them all Toby felt small and insignificant. Everyone was smartly dressed, despite the war rationing, and even in his best uniform he felt shabby. The men wore trilby hats and suits. The women wore heavy day dresses in floral patterns and coats with matching gloves and the children looked like perfect little versions of the adults. Everyone clutched a cup of tea and chattered politely. \
Some people looked down at him as he scooted through the crowd, perhaps wondering how such a dirty child had got into the church, but he was moving quickly and no one had a chance to pull him up.\
After a couple of minutes moving around at random he saw Pethergrew and quickly moved to striking distance. \
\
Pethergrew was talking to a very old woman in a wheelchair. He was having to speak loudly and repeat himself as the woman had bad hearing. The lady looked kind, and she didn\'92t notice that Pethergrew was irritated by her, that his smile was strained. Must be difficult to pretend to be nice all the time, thought Toby.\
As Pethergrew managed to separate himself from the old lady Toby walked up to him, grabbed his sleeve and pulled him around to look at him.\
\'93What are you doing, boy?!\'94 gasped Pethergrew.\
Toby turned to face him. \'93Sorry Vicar, but I have something very urgent to tell you, something about the orphanage, about Mr Finch.\'94\
Pethergrew eyed him suspiciously, \'93And who are you?\'94\
\'93Toby. Toby Tunstall. From the orphanage.\'94\
Toby was doing his best to look serious and grown up. \'93It is really very important, Sir.\'94 \
\'93Very well, follow me.\'94 Pethergrew sounded angry at being collared in such a way, but his curiosity had got the better of him. He swept away to the back of the church, toward the sacristy. Toby scampered to keep up, looking back to check that no one had seen him break away.\
\
The sacristy was a small, dark room used to store candles and vestments. Pethergrew started to untie his elaborate robes. \'93What is it then?\'94 he barked.\
Toby had imagined that Pethergrew might be a nicer person, considering all his sermons about Christian love, but up close Pethergrew looked harassed and cross. For a moment Toby wondered if he were doing the right thing.\
Then he remembered why he was here. He had no choice, what he had to say was more important than how he felt about the Vicar.\
\'93It\'92s Finch, Mr Finch,\'94 began Toby, his voice sounding louder than he expected in the small echoing room. \'93Finch is a Nazi.\'94\
Toby had imagined that Pethergrew would be shocked, or that he might get angry. Instead he looked at Toby with an amused smile. \'93A Nazi, you say?\'94\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\'93And you have proof, do you?\'94 Pethergrew said this like he was indulging a five year old.\
\'93It\'92s true, yes.\'94 Toby\'92s voice started to rise as he tried to drive his point home.\
\'93Out with it then.\'94\
Toby quickly told him about the German articles in the Bible and the \'91Heil Speer\'92 incident in the dining room.\
Pethergrew listened, continuing to take off his robes and tidy up after the service. He stopped to look at Toby only when he had finished talking.\
\'93What you are saying - these are very serious accusations,\'94 said Pethergrew looking over the top of his glasses at Toby.\
\'93Yes. Yes I know. But it\'92s important to the church, to know these kind of people are using the church as a cover for their activities.\'94\
The Vicar went back to stacking bibles. \'93It would be important, if it were true.\'94\
Toby realised that Pethergrew simply didn\'92t believe him. \
He felt ill. All this for nothing? And if he didn\'92t get back to the orphanage soon he would be in deep trouble.\
The Vicar gave Toby a patronising and indulgent smile. \'93You\'92ve been reading too many war stories. You have a good imagination. Go back and forget all this nonsense. There is no way there could be Nazis inside the Church of England.\'94\
\
Toby turned and ran.\
He sprinted as hard as he could to try and get back to the children before they reached the orphanage. \
Rounding the corner from Prospect Hill onto Shernall Road he could see them about fifty yards in front, walking towards the final turn, led by Finch and Bertie at the front. \
He had about twenty seconds to make the distance, if he could get onto the end of the line without being seen he would be ok.\
Putting his head down he ran even harder, his breath coming in ragged short gasps. He felt like he wasn\'92t in his body, that it was running for him, somewhere below. \
He was close, another ten seconds, another twenty yards and he\'92d be there.\
\
He almost made it too. But he tripped on a tree root that had worked its way above the footpath. \
Toby flew forward, spent a moment in mid air before he landed, knees and hands first, on the rough tarmac. \
He got up quickly, but looking down he saw he had scraped the skin off his knees and they were bleeding badly. Trails of bright red blood started to run down his shins. He couldn\'92t help himself - he yelled out in pain and shock.\
Up ahead the children turned into the orphanage gate. Esme was last in, looking back at the stricken Toby, wondering what he had done.\
Toby looked up to see the gate close, and then, seconds later, Finch coming back out and walking towards him.\
His face a storm, Finch reached him, roughly grabbed his jacket and started to drag him back to the orphanage.\
Finch hissed into his ear, \'93What have you been doing, boy?\'94\
Toby was trying not to cry. All he could manage was to shake his head.\
\'93Don\'92t doubt that I will find out.\'94 spat Finch. \'93You\'92ve been been leading me on a merry dance haven\'92t you?\'94\
Toby was too scared to answer.\
\'93No one makes a fool out of me boy.\'94 Finch said, pushing Toby through the gate and towards the front door.}