{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\fi198\sl280

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Toby knew exactly where he was going. \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi200\sl280
\cf0 Solitary.\
Finch marched him from the street into the house, down the steps, past the doors to the big cellar, along a narrow low corridor to a tiny, chest-high door. Opening it, Finch pushed Toby in, and swung the door closed behind Toby before he had time to even turn around.\
\
For a long time Toby just stood inside the door, thinking about what had just happened, trying not to look at the blood on his knees, trying not to panic, trying not to look at where he was.\
He knew there might be consequences when he tried to talk to Pethergrew so he shouldn\'92t have been surprised to end up here, but the truth was he had not let himself think about it.\
Now here he was, and here he would stay for a while. How long was anyone\'92s guess. A day? A week? It wouldn\'92t be less than a week, he felt sure of that.\
\
He decided there was no point feeling sorry for himself, and started to look at his surroundings properly. \
The walls seemed to be made of black earth and they oozed slime. The only furniture was a narrow wooden bed with a couple of old blankets on it that smelt of rotten cat. Under them was a straw mattress that turned up at the edges, like an old piece of mouldy bread. An ancient and corroded tin bucket stood in a corner, that must be the toilet. The only light came in through a small, high window made of old glass and you while you couldn\'92t see anything through it you could get a sense of what time of the day it was.\
It was a horrible place, full of bad feeling, like somewhere all the nightmares of the orphanage children would came to have a party. \
\
For the first few hours, still feeling upset and sore from the fall, he paced the room. Five steps along, then five steps back. Five steps along, then five steps back. \
Later, when the shock had worn off and he had calmed down, he lay down on the bed and looked up at the rough wood ceiling and wondered how long he would be down here and what would happen to him after that. Finch could put him out on the street, that was a very real possibility. Without Esme. That\'92s what scared him most, not having to survive on his wits or living on the street, but living without his sister. Who would be talk to? Who would he tease? Who would provide him with advice? Even now it hurt him that she wouldn\'92t know what had happened to him. He felt bad for not including her in his plan - she would be fearfully worried.\
\
Much later, when the final bells of the day had rung and Toby was lying in complete darkness, he thought about Esme again. He imagined that he could reach right through the walls and floors of the orphanage and hold her hand. It might have been fanciful, but it helped. He felt less lonely and sore and, even though he was cold and his knees ached, he was able to sleep.\
Next morning he woke to the creaking of the door. A bowl of porridge appeared, pushed in at floor level before the door swung closed again. Alongside it was a wt flannel. It was the first food he\'92s had since breakfast the day before. He fell on it and ate it all in a minute, so fast he almost made himself sick. He promised himself he would eat slower next time.\
He sat on the floor with his knees in front of him and gently pressed the wet flannel into the dried blood on his knees and shins, carefully rubbing away the congealed blood and trying to leave the blood that was hardening into scabs over the wounds themselves.\
As he finished he noticed that there was a small patch under the bed that was less black. He shuffled over and reached right up under the bad, towards the wall. His fingers grazed something. Paper. He pushed his hand as far as it would go and managed to pull it out. A tatty old Bible. He wished it had been something he actually wanted to read but then anything was better than nothing. He tossed it on the bed then sat and wondered what to do with his day.\
What Finch wanted was to break Toby\'92s spirit, so what he had to do was invent ways to keep himself active and mentally alert. So he made himself a schedule.\
At the sound of the work bell he started to do exercises. He made himself do press-ups, star-jumps and sit-ups, one hundred of each. It was hard work, specially the press-ups, and he had to shout at himself to keep going to one hundred. When he was finished he shook out all his limbs and did a series of stretches before resting. His muscles were sore, but it stopped him worrying about his knees and it felt good to exercise.\
\
As the work bell rang he made himself do the times table up to twelve twice over then tried to remember as many formulas and maths rules as he could, like all the ways to figure out circumferences and areas. He used the formulas to try and work out the surface area of the walls, floor and ceiling of the cell, forcing his brain to work as hard as his body had earlier.\
Soon enough it was lunch time. A bowl of watery stew was pushed through the door and he drank it while leafing through the Bible. \
Having done his exercises and school work he thought that he might as well read the Bible. In church Pethergrew was always telling you about this bit or that bit of the bible but no one ever suggested you read it from cover to cover, like a proper book. Because he wasn\'92t in a mood to do what Pethergrew would want him to do, Toby decided that is exactly what he would do, read it from beginning to end.\
So he opened his Bible and started at the beginning, with Genesis. \

\i In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.  And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.
\i0 \
He thought he might read for an hour or two and then have a sleep, but he spent all afternoon with it. Reading the Bible in church or school was boring. Adults were always telling you what it meant. Toby discovered that if you read it for yourself it was much more interesting.\
It was full of violent stories. The God in the early part of the bible was a long way from Pethergrew\'92s all-forgiving God. He was tough and mean and prone to having favourites. Toby found himself captivated and read right until the light petered out and he couldn\'92t see the words on the page.\
\
Left without anything to so in the cold and dark he realised that night time would require his best efforts to remain positive. He thought he should probably pray, but he wasn\'92t sure what he was going to pray for - forgiveness? Didn\'92t seem like any point in praying for that, it wasn\'92t him who had done anything wrong. So instead he decided to talk to Esme, pretending that she could hear him if he talked aloud.\
He spent a while telling her everything that had happened, how he had talked to Pethergrew, how Pethergrew hadn\'92t believed him, how he had hurt himself and what it was like in solitary. Strangely, he felt that she was hearing him. When he was tired he again imagined his hand in Esme\'92s. Instead of falling asleep lonely and depressed he felt like he was looked after and loved.\
\
The next day he repeated the pattern. In the day he exercised, did his mental maths and then read the Bible. That night he talked to Esme.\
On the third day he started to learn parts of the Bible so that he could recite them back to himself when it was dark. He chose uplifting sections of the bible. It was good to hear a voice, even if it was just his own.\
And that's how it went for the rest of the week. A couple of times he struggled to remember what day it was, or how many days he\'92d been down there. He was amazed at how quickly your mind lost track of things when it didn\'92t have a reference point - when no one around you was constantly reminding you what day it was and you weren\'92t reading the papers it was easy to fall out of time. \
Every now and then he got the sense that there was someone behind the door, standing there, listening in. When he felt that, he would stand close to the door and go deadly quiet. He thought it might be Finch, and he thought of the silence as a battle of wills. Toby would stand there, still and waiting, until he sensed the presence was gone.\
\
Somewhere in the course of the week Toby realised he really liked the Bible. It was so much bigger than The Church made out. Yes, it had plenty about morals and love, but it had magic and jealousy and fighting and epic struggles as well. But the most important thing was there were plenty of stories about people persevering in times of oppression. Jesus in the time of the Romans, the Israelites in the time of Egypt. There were plenty of people in the past who had suffered and made it through, and so he could too.\
So when the door was pulled open on the morning of the seventh day of his confinement, he walked out without even looking at Finch as he passed, feeling better and stronger than when he went in. He was skinnier and his eyes took a while to adapt to the sunlight, but he felt he had won a victory over Finch, a victory fought in will power and played out in silence.\
\
When he walked into the dining room for breakfast Esme couldn\'92t help herself. She bounded up to him, smiling, and wrapped her arms around him. In front of everyone.\
Normally he would push her off. He didn\'92t want anyone to see him being so mushy, let alone all the children in the orphanage, but today he held her tight for ages before he walked back with her to the Reds\'92 table.\
Sitting down, he shook hands with everyone, and launched himself\'a0into his porridge.\
When Toby had wolfed his own down, Phillip pushed his bowl towards him. \'93Leave me something.\'94 he said.\
Toby ate a quarter of it, then Robin pushed his bowl forward. Everyone at the table gave Toby a portion of their meal. By the time June pushed hers at him he was bursting, but he felt he should be fair and so he choked down some of that too.\
Once he had finished Esme spoke. \'93So Pethergrew didn\'92t believe you?\'94\
\'93What?\'94 said Toby, confused.\
\'93Pethergrew. You told him about Finch and he didn\'92t believe you.\'94 said Esme.\
Toby was confused. \'93How do you know that?\'94\
Esme smiled, \'93You told me, remember?\'94\
Stunned, Toby asked her what she was talking about.\
\'93You spoke to me, every night.\'94 she answered.\
Everyone around the table looked at Esme. The look of disbelief on June\'92s face was comical. Robin just about lost his porridge snorting with disbelief.\
\'93I did,\'94 said Toby, \'93but I thought I was talking to myself.\'94\
\'93I heard every word.\'94 Esme continued. \'93Ask me something I couldn\'92t possibly know.\'94\
Toby thought for a second. \'93I know. Tell me who the Vicar was talking to before me.\'94\
Esme shot back, \'93An old lady in a wheelchair. You said he couldn\'92t hear her, that he was impatient.\'94\
Toby couldn\'92t believe it.\
\'93Is that right?\'94 asked Esme.\
\'93Yes,\'94 said Toby quietly, \'93that\'92s exactly right.\'94\
The others looked at them like they were both mad. Toby decided it would be best if they talked about something else.\
\'93So what\'92s been happening up here, then?\'94 asked Toby.\
Esme looked at him strangely. \'93Didn\'92t you hear what I said to you?\'94\
\'93No.\'94 admitted Toby. \'93I didn\'92t know it went both ways. I wasn\'92t listening.\'94\
She smiled. \'93It\'92s a conversation, silly.\'94\
Anxious to cover up his failure Toby asked, \'93So what\'92s Finch been up to? Has the church done anything about him?\'94\
Vera spoke to the others. \'93He doesn\'92t know, does he?\'94\
Esme shook her head. Phillip looked down at the floor and Robin pretended to be interested in his spoon.\
\'93What is it?\'94 asked Toby, feeling alarmed that no one would tell him what was going on. Esme pushed a piece of paper and a pencil into the middle of the table.\
\'93You are going to write down what I'm saying in my head. Words from the front of the newspaper.\'94\
Toby laughed. \'93But that\'92s impossible!\'94\
She shrugged. \'93Let\'92s just try it.\'94\
Toby shrugged, pulled the paper towards him, picked up the pencil, then looked at Esme.\
She held his gaze. Everyone at the table was quiet and intent, wondering if anything would happen.\
For a while Toby nothing happened. He felt stupid with all of them watching him, but then, like he was opening a parcel in his mind, he heard three words distinctly and clearly. \
Without thinking he wrote them down and held them up for all to see.
\b \
}