{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 GERMANS \
INVADE\
BRITIAN\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Toby\'92s jaw dropped. "When was this?" he asked urgently, looking around the breakfast table at the worried faces of the others.\
\'93Tuesday." said June. "That's four days ago."\
"Where did they land?" asked Toby, who couldn\'92t believe what he was hearing.\
Robin spoke now, "They took the East Coast ports, Lowestoft, \
Ipswich, South End, Frinton. Then they captured twenty five airfields in a couple of hours."\
"How did they do that?" blurted Toby, "We knew they were coming!"\
"Some of them were handed over intact." said Robin, darkly. "It seems there were collaborators. At a high level."\
Toby couldn\'92t believe it, "More Finchs!?"\
"Tons more Finchs." said Phillip. \
"With a lot more to give away." added Robin. \
June objected, "You don\'92t know that. It\'92s not in the papers."\
"How else could they take whole airfields without a fight?" Robin snapped back, annoyed at being challenged.\
"You shouldn\'92t jump to conclusions like that." June added, "It\'92s dangerous."\
\'93Dangerous? That\'92s a bit dramatic." said Robin, laughing at her.\
June shot back, "Facts!" she barked, "I only deal in facts!"\
Esme held up her hands, "Stop it you two!" She looked at one then the other, "It doesn't help if we fight does it?"\
June and Robin both shut their mouths and looked away from each other.\
Vera touched Toby on the arm and whispered, \'93I collected all the papers and hidden them upstairs, you can read them tonight if you like.\'94\
Toby nodded, "Thanks Vera."\
\
When the clock reached eight, Phillip got up from the table, shuffled over to the bell and shook it to sound the end of breakfast. The metallic ringing seemed ominous to Toby now, the sound of war approaching.\
As they worked through the day Robin gave Toby more detail on what had been happening.\
Late in the night the Germans had launched ten invasion fleets at once, figuring that The English couldn't cover them all at once. And they were right - six fleets made it to the coast without having a single bomb dropped on them. They reached harbours all around the coast early in the morning. Advanced parties of crack troops motored up to docks and wharves, jumped off and started taking control of key points. \
By the time dawn broke the defences were neutralised and occupied by Germans. The concrete bunkers, barbed-wire and radar that had guarded England's coast for ten years had been over-run in less than ten hours. Guns that had pointed out to sea for hundreds of years were now pointing inland, ready to be used against the English.\
The Germans then launched hundreds of bombing runs against airports. They destroyed English planes before they could take off. The few planes that were able to leave the ground were picked off by the German's new long-range jet fighters. The new planes were twice as fast as anything England had and could fly a thousand miles without refuelling. \
With the harbours secure and the air threat gone the Germans could unload their armoured divisions at the ports. They didn't even get their feet wet. Two days later the Germans had a million soldiers and a hundred thousand vehicles lined up and ready for action.\
It was an overwhelming show of force. But what was worse was that some of the ports and airports hadn't even put up a fight. It many places, the authorities just handed over the keys. Perhaps they were hoping to keep the causalities down. Or maybe there really were many more sympathisers like Finch in the country.\
The English army did manage to put up a fight eventually but it was too little too late. Two hundred thousand men fought as best they could but all they did was slow the German advance. \
At the end of the week the Germans were forty miles inland and had command of several important towns.  Norwich, Ipswich, Canterbury, Brighton, Portsmouth and Southampton were all in German hands. It was no longer  question of whether the Germans would reach London, but how long it would take. \
"The Germans will be sipping tea in Buckingham Palace soon enough."  said Robin. "Some say it will take a week, others ten days."\
Toby tried to imagine Nazi flags hanging off the front of Walthamstow town hall - the black fist of the swastika punching out of the scarlet background. \
He shivered thinking about it. He knew the Nazis only liked proper families, that they didn't like people like orphans and gypsies. Where the  Church felt a moral obligation to look after them he was under no illusion that the Germans would do the same. They might  throw them on the street, or force them to work in slave camps like the unfortunate citizens of so many other countries.\
They all knew that for the Germans it was all about how pure your blood was. Anyone who could prove they had German blood in their family did well and got the best jobs. Anyone who wasn't white had a bad time. And so did anyone who they thought were trouble-makers, like Muslims, Jews, Romany Gypsies, Arabs. To top it off they also didn't like anyone  who held ideas contrary to Nazi beliefs,  which was everyone who could think for themselves.\
"They're going to do two things."\
"What's that Toby?" asked Robin, pulling up a potato and shaking it to clear the dirt. \
Toby, realised he'd been talking inside his head for a while and that Robin had no idea what he was talking about. "When they get here, the Germans." \
"Only two?" laughed Robin.\
"No no", said Toby, "Big things. First of all they're going to weed out all the people they don't like and enslave them. Then they're going to make everyone else take an oath."\
"What kind of oath?"\
"An oath to National Socialism, to the Nazi cause."\
Robin paused, then looked dismayed as he understood what Toby was saying. "You're right. That's how they'll weed out the resistors."\
"Most people will have to take the oath, they won't want to make life difficult for themselves."\
"What would you do?" Robin asked.\
"That's obvious." said Toby, "Same as you."\
"Take the oath." said Robin lightly.\
Toby couldn't believe it. "No! Not take the oath!"\
They looked at each other like they were both mad.\
Robin broke the silence first, "I don't want to die at twelve. just because I haven\'92t signed a piece of paper!\'94\
"They won't kill people." Toby reasoned.\
"Won't they?"\
"No, people are too valuable. As slaves."\
"Right." said Robin, turning away to work at another patch of earth, \'93I feel so much better now."\
Toby thought about it. It didn't make much sense to be a slave, but then it wouldn't feel right to pledge allegiance to the Nazis.\
"You're not thinking it through Toby." said Robin, "It would be like church, you go along because you're expected to, not because you believe in it. Everyone does the same don't they?"\
Toby nodded. Robin had a point. \
"So your first job when the Germans arrive is to stay alive. Your second is to stay out of trouble." Robin smiled at Toby, "But then you're not good at staying out of trouble are you?"\
Toby shook his head and laughed, "No, not me!"\
"Ok then," said Robin, "So what we have to do is figure out a way of causing trouble without getting into trouble."\
Toby nodded again. "You think about being in trouble a lot don't you Robin?"\
"Nothing else!" said Robin, laughing and tossing his head in the air like a happy dog.}