{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Every child in the orphanage was sent out to the allotment to bring in as many vegetables as they could. The Reds worked shoulder to shoulder, Toby between Esme and Philip, pulling out beets and potatoes -  anything that looked even a little ready. \
\'91Laying down a stock\'92 was how Finch put it.\
It made sense. If the Germans got to London the children would do well to have some food in the cellar, hidden from view. It gave them the option to stay downstairs for at least a week while the fighting - if there was any - went on outside. Toby wondered if Finch wouldn't just hand the food over to the Germans as soon as they entered London, but he decided that was a thought best kept to himself.\
\
For the first hour of digging Toby felt bound up and awkward. The week he\'92d spent in solitary had shrunk his muscles and made him clumsy. But after a while he started to relax, found his rhythm again and started to enjoy gently levering up beets and placing them in the wheelbarrow. \
"Toby!" barked Esme.\
He turned to her, "What is it?"\
"You\'92re whistling!"\
"Yes?" he said. "So what?"\
Esme smiled, shook her head and went back to the plants, leaving Vera to point out what they all knew already. "You don\'92t have a musical bone in your body."\
"You sound," said Philip, thinking carefully, "like a bad wind through a wire fence."\
"Bad wind all right." added Robin, making a crude farting noise and making them all laugh.\
"Thank you every much!" said Toby, standing up and stretching his back for a second and looking past the Town Hall.\
What he saw made him stop still.\
\
"What\'92s that?" he asked, pointing to Forest Road.\
A line of about a dozen carts, like the ones the traders used at the market, was making its way along the road. Drawn by horses that looked like they weren\'92t used to the weight, the carts were piled high with canvas bags, small items of furniture and food. There was even a parrot in a cage on one. \
Women and children rode on the carts too, wrapped in blankets, and the men led the horses on foot. As Toby watched a tram ding-dinged it's bell and the line lazily parted to let it through the middle.\
Robin stood up beside Toby. "They started a few days ago. Leaving London."\
"Where are they going?" asked Toby.\
Robin spoke again, his voice sounding sadder than Toby had ever heard it, "To stay with their families in the country I guess."\
Toby stayed silent and watched the procession. He was jealous. Those people had options, they had family they could stay with. They had a chance of making the German occupation tolerable. It would never be great to live under the Germans, but it would be better in the countryside where there would be less of them.\
Vera stood up too and put her hand on Robin\'92s shoulder. With a small shock Toby realised that Robin was sniffling, the comment about families must have got to him.\
Toby was saved having to say anything by Braithwaite who saw the three of them standing there, and shouted at them in his deep voice.\
"You lot - back to work!"\
\
What had started as a few carts in the morning had become a traffic jam by the afternoon. Hundreds of people were on the road now.  There were horse-drawn carts, hand carts and men pushing wheelbarrows stacked with goods. There was even the occasional motor car, peeping and tooting, trying to muscle through. \
From the allotment it looked like a funeral procession, everyone in long coats, the colours black or brown. And completely silent. Whatever snatches of conversation there were were dusted away by a faint breeze. \
"There\'92s a lot more people than yesterday." said Vera who stood by beside him.\
"It's really horrible." he said.\
"Like watching hope slowly drain from the city." said Vera.\
Toby looked at her with admiration, 
\i hope slowly draining from the city
\i0 . While he had never seen the point of a lot of what Vera did with her sewing and bows and pictures she certainly had a great way of describing things. It made him smile. Despite how bleak everything was he was glad they were all together. Nothing would be worse than facing this alone. \
Toby went back to work and ignored the sight of people leaving as best as he could, trying to keep his mind on his task. \
They toiled for hours making great heaps of vegetables. Bean, beats, turnips and Toby\'92s least favourite of all things, rhubarb. Their cooks never added sugar to it and every autumn they struggled through bowls of the stuff, stringy and bitter.  Collins, the cook,  optimistically called it \'91dessert\'92.\
\
It turned out the hardest work was not the digging, but trying to get the veggies back to the orphanage. The first barrow of potatoes that Toby manoeuvred through the crowd was almost empty by the time he made it across the road. With both hands on the handles he was helpless to stop people taking as many vegetables as they wanted. He asked them to stop, then shouted at them, but nothing worked.\
The second time over he got all The Walthamstow Reds to crowd around the barrow of beets as he pushed it. They slapped away hands as best they could and this time they only lost the top layer. They did a couple of loads like this, but it was slow going. In the end Braithwaite called a halt and sent the children back to the Orphanage for dinner.\
\
Toby looked at his plate without any enthusiasm. Because they were being careful with food they were using up the old vegetables. The only decent way of eating it was in vegetable stew, and they would be having it all week.\
"We could run away." said Robin through mouthfuls of boiled cabbage. "We could run away and go and live in the forest."\
"What forest?" said Vera scornfully.\
"Dunno." said Robin, "Epping Forest?"\
June looked at him as if he was mental. "In autumn? We wouldn\'92t make it, it\'92s too cold. There\'92s no food."\
"We\'92d come back into Walthamstow for the food."\
June\'92s eyebrows shot up, "Steal it from the market would we?"\
"Why not?"\
Toby sighed, "\'92Cause we\'92d go to prison that\'92s why not."\
Robin didn\'92t give up, "Prison would be warm at least."\
"Not if the Germans ran it." said June. "You don\'92t think things through do you Robin?"\
Robin shook his head. "If all you do is think you never get anything done do you?"\
The girls laughed at him, but Toby thought Robin had a point. Why just sit here and be taken prisoner? But when he tried to think of a practical way for them to escape the orphanage and look after themselves he came up with nothing.\
"We\'92re better off staying here." he said. "At least until we know what\'92s going to happen."\
"What\'92s going to happen is that the Germans are going to roll through here in tanks and kill us all, that\'92s what\'92s going to happen!" said Robin.\
"Shhh!" said Esme. "You\'92ll scare the younger children."\
Robin shrugged to show he didn\'92t care, but he made no more trouble as he finished his meal.\
"Does anyone have any relatives at all they know about?" asked Vera.\
No one could look her in the eye. The silence was terrible. Between the six of them there was no one they could turn to for help.\
"Can't anyone help us?" Vera asked again, more desperate this time.\
"The church." said Esme weakly. That bought a half-hearted laugh.\
"No!" said Toby slapping his palm on the table, "We have to stay here. We can\'92t distract ourselves with thinking about things we don't have - that's pointless!"\
They all looked at him, surprised at his depth of feeling. He took a deep breath, calming himself, before he continued, "We have to look to ourselves. We have to trust that we have everything we need here, with the six of us."\
No one disagreed. Esme nodded and looked pleased with him, like she had known all along he would say this.\
\
When the bell rang at midnight Toby panicked for a moment thinking it might be an air raid before remembering that this was part of the plan. He pulled on his clothes and walked to the allotment with the rest of the older children, about twenty-five of them in all. It was spooky being up this late and Toby was glad there were plenty of them traveling together.\
As they crossed the road they could see that the crowds of earlier in the day were gone. Only an occasional straggler wandered up the street now, no match for all these children. \
"Stop!" hissed Robin, who was walking a few steps ahead. \
Everyone froze. "What is it?" whispered Toby.\
"A man with a gun." said Robin, his voice strained with tension.\
Toby looked carefully. There was the outline of a man there, and yes, he has hefting a shotgun. Had someone decided to take over the allotment and steal all their food? Things hadn\'92t got that bad had they?\
"Braithwaite." said Esme. "Pipe."\
Looking closer Toby could see that Esme was right. There was the faint glow of his habitual pipe and the distinctive twisted peak on his cap. What a relief.\
Braithwaite had been standing guard on the crops, a shotgun broken open over his forearm, all night. As they got closer he signalled the children  over.\
"Come on you lot." he said, "Let\'92s get all this away. We should be able to finish by the morning."\
Vera groaned. "All night?"\
"I thought girls could do anything." sneered Robin, winding Vera up.\
"Come on," said Esme, "The sticking together begins now doesn't it?"\
Vera couldn't argue with that, and went over to a barrow of turnips, slapped her hands on the handles and got ready to do her bit.}