{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
They all sat at their allotted places in the dining room, nothing unusual in that. What was unusual was that they had been called in from afternoon classes by a flushed, excitable Finch. He had hurried and shooed them into the dining room, smiling and laughing to himself as he did it.\
As soon as they all sat down Finch blew dust off the top of the big radio at the back of the room and switched in on. It hadn't had much use since Mr Cage had left. He used to let everyone listen to music after dinner and tuned into comedy on Saturday night. \
Finch tapped on the top of the radio impatiently while it warmed up. First it hummed and then crackled suddenly into life, loudly filling the room with static. Finch turned it down and worked with the tuning knob, all the while looking at the clock.\
\
Just before the hour, the voice of the BBC came into the room. Toby had a fair idea what was coming, and it wasn't going to be good news. From the grim looks on the other Red's faces he could see he wasn't alone.\
"At the sound of the bells the time will be three o'clock." said the clipped voice of the announcer. A short silence then as the whole country waited for Big Ben to start. Then the three deep, slow peels rang out of the radio.\
"The time is three o'clock, this is the BBC." said the voice beautifully, as if the occasion called for extra special way of talking. "In place of the news we have a broadcast recorded yesterday from his Majesty the King, Edward the eighth."\
That woke everyone up. The King! This was important! But why had the broadcast been recorded yesterday? What did that mean?\
"Good afternoon everybody." \
The Kings voice was thin and scratchy as it came off a record player and then over the radio. \
"As you know we are living in difficulty times, times that call for a clear head and the utmost bravery while we make extraordinary decisions. \
\'93I have had to take a decision which I never thought I would have to. It is with deep regret that I have to tell you that I have left the country. As you hear this I am already resident in a country friendly to the Commonwealth."\
All around the room children's mouths were open in disbelief. The King had left? Why? Was he scared?\
"I took this decision on advice from the Prime Minister and his cabinet. They convinced me that it was important that the reigning Monarch should be safe from harm. Personally I would have liked to take a Lee Enfield rifle, put it to my shoulder and walked out onto the fields of Sussex with my regiment. I would have liked to make the German's fight for every inch of our precious land. \
"Believe me, my heart bleeds as tell you this, but I wish every one of you safety and God speed in the difficult days to come. The Prime Minister will tell you more. All I can add now is that I love my country with all my heart, as I love you all. I will return one day to a country free to enjoy it's wealth and happiness.\
"God bless you all, and good afternoon." \
\
"Pillock." muttered Robin as voice of the King was replaced by muffled scraping.\
"What!" Vera spat at him, "How dare you! The poor man has had to flee the country!"\
"Yes," said Robin, "It's all right for him isn't it?"\
"What are you babbling about?" asked Esme.\
"The royals, they're all German anyway." Robin declared.\
Esme couldn't speak for shock and Vera looked like she was about to burst she was so red.\
"He has a point." said June.\
"What do you mean?" asked Toby.\
"Queen Victoria, a Hanoverian, married Albert Saxe-Coburg-Gotha from a Duchy \'96 that's like a small kingdom - in Germany. George the fifth changed the family name during the Great War, from Saxe-Coburg-Gotha to Windsor."\
"But," said Toby pointing to Robin, "he's trying to tell me that the King of England has run way to Germany. Or that he's a Nazi too."\
"It's not like he is going to advertise the fact is it?" blustered Robin, "But it is possible. Edward is half German."\
Phillip nodded, "It is possible." he said, "These are strange days."\
At that moment the voice on the radio came back, sounding a lot less polished this time. "It seems that... that we have an unscheduled announcement from the Prime Minister." The way the voice said 
\i unscheduled
\i0  made it seem like that was the worse thing in the world.\
There was a brief crackling noise, then a gruff, voice muttered, "Is this thing on?" \
It was the unmistakeable growl of Lord Basham.\
\'93Yes Prime Minister,\'94 said the smooth BBC voice,  \'93and the whole country, the whole commonwealth is listening."\
"Very good, very good." Basham paused then and you could practically hear him winding up the courage to speak. \
Finch, who was still tuning the radio, shouted at it, "Come on then! Spit it out man!"\
As if in reply the Prime Minister started speaking again. "This has not been an easy day. The cabinet and I have been talking for the last forty-eight hours straight but it seems there is no way out of our predicament. Either we fight a losing war and risk many lives and countless dead or we surrender and gift our country to the The Germans. We have talked both options through and many others besides, but it seems, in the end, that we must capitulate."\
"What does 'capitulate' mean?" whispered Phillip.\
"It means surrender." said Toby, bitterly.\
The Prime Minister continued with a shaky voice, "We have been in contact with Herr Speer and he will accept our surrender at midnight tonight here in London. There will be a ceasefire effective immediately."\
There was a long pause then and Toby wondered if Basham was crying.\
"I cannot be certain that we have made the right choice, but I am certain that many less will die because of that choice. I urge you to co-operate with the Germans and to be kind to your fellow British men and women. \
"We must keep our chests full of air and our chins held high even as we are occupied. We must think of a future where we will be free again and tyranny is defeated. Tyranny is always defeated in the end, because tyranny relies on terror, not democracy and good will."\
It seemed like Basham ran out of puff then, and he lapsed into silence for a moment before he coughed and started off again.  "That is all. Keep tuned to the BBC as always for news of these terrible events. And do not despair, we will rise again."\
The radio quickly switched to classical music and the speeches were over.\
Finch snapped the radio off, stood up to his full height with a straight back and pushed his right hand up in front of him, "Seig Heil!" he bellowed before triumphantly marching out of the dining room and into the kitchen. \
After a moment they could hear Mrs Finch popping the cork on a bottle of champagne. This was followed by the strange, alien sound of her laughter echoing off the tiled walls. Then the two of them bounced through the kitchen, banged up the stairs to Finch's study, and slammed the door behind them. \
\
"Game over." said Robin, shrugging as if they had just lost the annual house football match.\
Toby was disgusted by Robin's attitude. "What?" said Toby, "Is that it then?"\
Robin pointed to the radio, "You heard Basham, it's all over."\
"Yes," said June, "What can we do about it Toby?"\
Toby looked at Esme. She looked grim, her mouth a thin line of determination. \'93No.\'94 she said, \'93We have to do something.\'94\
It was as if she knew exactly what he was thinking. Toby remembered that she might know exactly what he was thinking.\
"Two days!" Toby said, aware now that everyone in the room was listening to him, "That's how long we held out against the Germans. Does that seem like enough to you? Did we did a good job of fighting for our country and our King?"\
He looked around the room to see if the other children were with him or not. Most had their heads downcast, a few looked they might cry at any moment.\
"It's not long enough for me!" said Toby.\
"Nor me." said Phillip, loud enough for the whole room to hear. \
Esme said the same thing, "Nor me."\
"But we're children Toby, what can we do?" said Vera.\
Toby had to shrug then, "I don't know Vera, I really don't, but all I can say is.... if we put our minds to it we might be able to make a statement. We might be able to fight back."\
Children were nodding around the room, looking up at him with defiance in their eyes.\
Toby continued, "I'm not sure I could pull a trigger, or fire a gun but there must be something we can do as the Germans come in London, something to show they're not wanted." Toby paused then and saw that just about everyone was with him, even Robin and June. This gave him the confidence to continue.\
"We are young, we are clever - or at least June is. A grand gesture is all it might be, but it's worth making isn't it?"\
For the next minute Toby couldn't hear a thing as the children bashed their enamel cups and plates on the tables in agreement.}