{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The day after the surrender Toby was shaken awake by June. \
\'93Toby, Toby, there\'92s something wrong.\'94\
 Toby sat bolt upright, his head still woozy. He had been having a horrible dream, one where he was looking out of a window at a german tank. Then the turret turned and pointed right at him and then he saw a flash from the barrel as a shell spat out of the tank and came right at him, forcing him to duck.\
\'93What is it June?\'94\
\'93No bell.\'94 she said, her eyes wide with disbelief.\
Toby looked over to their old battered clock. It twenty past - the bell should have gone. He felt a bit of relief then, and laughed.\
June looked him, \'93What\'92s so funny?\'94 she asked.\
\'93For a moment he thought something really serious had happened.\'94 said Toby, realising as he spoke that June really was upset and thought something serious had happened. She looked like she was on the verge of tears.\
\'93It\'92s probably nothing, let\'92s wake the others and go down and have a look shall we?\'94\
June nodded, but still the look of worry hung off her face and she moved in fits and starts as she woke the others - a sure sign that she was feeling uncomfortable. \
\
They expected the dining room to be full when they went in but there was no one there. They automatically went to their table and sat down.\
\'93This is really odd.\'94 said Vera.\
\'93It\'92s really quiet.\'94 said Esme, getting up from the table and poking her nose into the kitchen. \
\'93The range doesn;t have a fire in it.\'94 she called back to them, \'93No sign of cook either.\'94\
Esme came back to the table. The Reds' all sat staring at each other, no one wanting to say aloud what they all suspected. \
\'93Have they abandoned us?\'94 asked June, finally.\
\'93Yes June.\'94 said Vera, \'93They have.\'94\
\
Over the next half an hour the dining room slowly filled with children from the other rooms, all of them as baffled as they had been. As they came in one of The Reds told them what had happened and the new children would sit at their usual table waiting for something to happen.\
A dreadful silence descended on the dining room. You could hear the clock ticking away the seconds. From the behind him Toby could hear the snuffles of one of the smaller children as they tries to stop themselves from crying. \
"Do something." It was Esme's voice, though he couldn't be sure if she said it out loud or not. \
"Do what?" said Toby. He had as little idea as anyone else.\
\'93Go and see if anyone is left.\'94 said Esme.\
\'93They were drinking last night.\'94 said Robin, \'93maybe they're sleeping in?\'94\
Toby didn't think that was likely, but it gave him something to do, so he nodded and stood up. Both Phillip and then Robin stood up too. He was glad of the company, he didn\'92t want to be going through the house on his own, specially if Finch was still here.\
\
They started with the cottage at the back of the kitchen garden, right next to the chicken house, where Braithwaite and Collins slept. \
No, used to sleep. \
Pushing open the unlocked door is was easy to see that they  were both gone. The mattresses were tipped on their sides to air but otherwise it was like no one had ever been there. The small wardrobe was bare, a set of drawers, empty. Even their ashtray looked like no had even tapped a pipe into it. \
\'93They must have gone to their families, to look after them.\'94 said Toby, looking around the small, deserted room. \
\'93I thought they were like us.\'94 said Phillip, \'93Orphans.\'94\
Toby had never thought of that. They could have been orphans who stayed on since they were children. In which case they would have lived here for fifty years or more. \
\'93Then what would make them leave?\'94 asked Toby.\
\'93Money? Another job?\'94 said Robin.\
\'93Who would give them another job?\'94 said Phillip.\
\'93If Mr Finch is connected with the Nazis then maybe he\'92s given them another job. Maybe he\'92s had something in mind for them all along.\'94\
\'93Or maybe Finch had them killed.\'94 said Phillip.\
\'93What?\'94 said Robin, \'93That\'92s being a bit dramatic isn\'92t it?\'94\
Toby shook his head, \'93We will never know now will we?\'94\
\
Five minutes later they were standing outside the Finch\'92s bedroom. No one had ever dared to enter here before and even though he knew it must be empty Toby found himself knocking before he went in. \
It was the nicest room in the Orphanage. It had large bay windows facing East to get the morning sun and a view over Forest Road right up to Epping Forest. \
The bed was large and high and had an Eiderdown blanket on top. Toby put his hand on it - he\'92d never touched anything so soft. There were small mahogany tables each side of the bed, each with an electric light, and above the bed was a large picture of the countryside, somewhere open and sunny. \
Toby had never been out of North London, so he had no idea where it was. It could have been Germany for all he knew.\
\'93Nothing.\'94 said Robin, \'93They\'92ve gone too.\'94\
Toby turned and looked at the large wardrobe as Robin pulled the doors open. Empty. Only a few wooden coat hangers dangled there.\
\'93We really are on our own.\'94 said Phillip, his voice caught halfway between relief and fear. \
\
Back downstairs Esme and Vera had gone about making the porridge and were getting ready to serve. Toby quickly told them what they had discovered.\
\'93You have to tell everyone Toby.\'94\
\'93Me?\'94 \
\'93Yes you.\'94 said Esme getting ready to lift the porridge pot with Vera, \'93And make it sound like a good thing. Just wait until everyone is fed.\'94\
Toby nodded and rejoined the Walthamstow Reds' table.\
\
After all the children had finished their porridge Toby stood up on his bench. He could have gone to the small platform at the front of the room, the one Finch always used, but he didn\'92t want look like a Headmaster.\
He told everyone what had found, that all the adults were all gone and that they were on their own. Looking for something good to say he stumbled. He hadn\'92t thought about what they should do. He looked to Esme with a pleading expression.\
Esme stood up on her bench and spoke. "For today lets just do what we normally do. We can run this place without adults. We know what to plant, what to cook, how to bake and clean, how to get wood. We\'92ve got food and fuel enough for weeks.\'94\
\'93How will we decide who does what?\'94 asked June.\
Esme thought for a moment before continuing, \'93You all know what you like and what you're good at, so lets start with that shall we?"\
Listening to her Toby was impressed. His sister had a way of making people think good things about themselves. Maybe they really could look after each other.\
"Vera!" said Esme.\
Vera jumped when Esme called out her name. "Yes Esme?"\
"You can run the kitchen. I will take the gardeners out to the allotment. Phillip you can lead the household clean up. And get some firewood from the forest."\
They all nodded as they received their tasks from Esme, they were all doing the things they liked to do.\
"Toby, Robin and June, you are going to stay here and start planning how to run the house and how to surprise the Germans when they turn up."\
Toby nodded and Esme turned back to the room. "So... gardeners, follow me!"\
Esme got down from the seat and walked towards the door. As if by magic fifteen children fell in behind her, laughing and jostling for the chance to be closest to her.\
Vera stood up then and called out, "Whoever wants to make the best lunch and dinner... follow me!"\
Another group of children got up and made the short journey with Vera towards the kitchen.\
It was Phillip's turn then, "Everyone who wants to chop wood and clean, come with me." A clump of the stronger children formed around Phillip and they left the room, heading for the kitchen garden.\
\
There were seven of them left. Toby, June and Robin and four other children, two of whom were the youngest in the orphanage, Alex and Ava. The other two were the two girls who would hang around June if she let them. They were a couple of years younger than her but looked like they were cut from the same cloth - thin, frail and very brainy.\
"You have a fan club June." Toby quipped. She looked at him like she had no idea what he was talking about, then noticed the two girls and jumped with surprise. \
"Fanny and Mae! What are you doing here, shouldn't you be gardening?"\
Neither of them spoke, they just returned June's stare, as if to say gardening was the last thing they wanted to do.\
"Look at them," said Robin, "neither of them looks like they could lift a carrot let alone a spade."\
Toby laughed, but shut up quickly when they both glared at him. They looked upset at not being taken seriously. Then he had an idea. "I know what you can do that would be incredibly useful."\
Their faces lit up at the prospect of having something to do.\
"You can run the junior school."\
They both looked at him like he was mad.\
"That is an excellent idea," chipped in June. "You are both terribly bright, you can read anything, and I'm sure that if you were very brave you could get up in front of a class and give a talk."\
Fanny looked at Mae and Mae looked at Fanny and they both looked scared. Fanny got up the courage to talk. "We are bright enough but it's the talking in front of the class that might pose a difficulty." They even spoke like June.\
Toby pointed at the two other children, Alex and Ava. "Are you scared of them?"\
Mae shook her head. "No," she said, laughing, "not at at all."\
"Well there you go," said Toby, "They're your first class. I am sure you can find one of Mrs Finch\'92s old lessons and go from there.\'94\
Fanny snorted with derision. \'93We wouldn\'92t use her lessons, she was terrible!" \
"Upstairs then!" said June, briskly, as if the matter was settled once and for all. \'93Start teaching!\'94\
The four little children looked at each other but remained still.\
Toby gave them a final incentive. "I will bring some morning tea and biscuits up for you myself in an hour and see how you're getting on, how's that?"\
The newly promoted teachers nodded vigorously. Ava put her hand into Mae\'92s and started walking off to the classroom upstairs, Fannie and Alex followed.\
Toby looked at June, \'93We just started a school!\'94 he said. \'93That was easy.\'94\
\'93Now we just have to figure out how to run this place without a headmaster and give the Germans a fright.\'94 said June, \'93that will be somewhat harder.\'94}