{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \'93Do you know what?\'94 said Robin, sitting down at the table and pulling the leftover porridge pot towards himself, \'93I think we could do really well out of it.\'94\
\'93That\'92s for the chickens.\'94 said Toby, pulling the pot back to the centre of the table. \'93And what do you mean \'91do really well\'92?\'94\
Robin sighed and put down his spoon. \'93I reckon if we can grow enough food we could start selling what we don\'92t need down the Market.\'94\
\'93Good idea.\'94 said Toby, nodding. \'93But first we have to figure out if the church is still supporting us. They might know that the Finchs' have gone, it might be part of a plan. I have to go and talk to Pethergrew.\'94\
He didn\'92t like that thought much, Pethergrew hadn't taken him seriously when Toby had tried to tell him Finch was a Nazi.\
Robin shook his head, \'93Don\'92t waste your time, they don't give a fig about us Toby, we're on our own."\
"The whole church will ignore us will they? What about the congregation?"\
"They'll be too concerned with looking after themselves. There's a war on don't you know."\
June, who had been listening in, surprised Toby by agreeing with Robin. "It's best if we think that no one will come to look after us, so if someone does then we will be in good shape won't we? Robin's plan to sell vegetables makes sense. We have a lot of things here but we need some cash for things we can't grow or make ourselves. Kerosene for the lamps, exercise books, chalk, that sort of thing."\
"Okay." said Toby, "We'll continue on the basis that we have no adults, but would either of you object if I go and see Pethergrew anyway? I think we should give him one more chance."\
"Knock yourself out." said Robin, shrugging and making it clear he thought Toby was wasting his time. \
\
After that they talked about how they would run the household, which children were best at which tasks and what timetable they should keep. They agreed they would keep to the timetable they were used to and adjust it as needed. \
\'93One last thing." said Toby.\'94 We should use all the rooms of the house. We should open Finch's study, lounge and bedroom now they've gone."\
"Good idea." said Robin, "A games room.\'94\
 \'93A quiet reading room!\'94 said June.\
 \'93A social room.\'94 said Toby, \'93That's agreed then?\'94\
June and Robin both nodded.\
"So why don't you two sort that out while I go and see Pethergrew? It would be nice for everyone if we had those rooms ready for tonight." said Toby.\
"What about the surprise for the Germans? When will we figure that out?" said Robin, eager as ever to do some mischief. \
"We have a day or two, something will come up." He smiled and tried to radiate more confidence than he felt. \
It had been his idea and it felt good to say it at the time but he still had no idea what to do. And every time he thought about the germans the image from his dream came back. The tank turret turning and firing directly at them as he looked out from the window. \
\
It was a fine autumn day and Pethergrew was making the most of the sun by sitting out in the Graveyard,. The cherry trees and willows that draped themselves over the ancient gravestones sparkled the sunlight and the grass was thick and high between the graves. Everything was still and calm - you wouldn't know that there was a war on. \
 Pethergrew was sitting on a cane chair with a cup of tea on a wooden folding table and a book in his lap. As he got closer Toby could hear snuffly snores coming across the grass. Pethergrew was asleep. On any other day Toby would have left him to it, but today he needed to talk, so he moved closer and politely cleared his throat. \
When that didn't work he tried a small cough. \
And when that didn't work he poked him hard on the shoulder. \
Pethergrew woke with a start, sending his book flying into the table leg. The table wobbled, threatening to fall over and take Pethergrew's cup of tea with it. Toby grabbed the saucer just as the table folded up and collapsed backwards onto the grass.\
Pethergrew, seeing Toby holding his cup of tea, snatched it back and regarded him as if he were a stray dog - unwanted trouble.\
"What is it?" he said, getting up and setting the table on its feet again.\
"Toby, from the Orphanage sir."\
"I know who you are. The nuisance."\
Toby thought that wasn't nice, or accurate, so he ignored the insult and kept on. "It seems that Finch and his wife, and the gardener and the cook have all left the orphanage."\
"Is that so?" said Pethergrew, his face twisting into something that was meant to look like surprise. He wasn't a good actor. Toby could see that Pethergrew knew they were gone. \
Toby decided to get to the point, "Is he coming back? Are you going to send anyone down to run the Orphanage?"\
Pethergrew took a sip of his tea. It must have been cold because his lips pursed into a tight circle and he put it back on the table with a dramatic bang.\
"The answer to the first question is 'No', Finch has found something better to do."\
"He was a Nazi all along, like I told you." said Toby.\
"Don't be impertinent boy!" barked Pethergrew.\
Toby wasn't sure what impertinent meant, but it sounded like Pethergrew was telling him to stop being cheeky. He didn't respond, just kept staring at him, waiting for an answer to his second question.\
Pethergrew could see that Toby wasn't going to be put off. Sighing, and looking like this was the least important thing in the world, he spoke. "As I am sure you are aware there is a war on. And it can't have escaped your notice that we have lost it. The Germans will be here in a matter of days and what shape our lives fall into after that is a matter of guess work.\'94\
"Obviously." said Toby, tersely, wanting him to get to the point.\
"We don't have anyone spare." said Pethergrew, shrugging his shoulders.\
"You're all busy are you?" asked Toby, sarcastically pointing to Pethergrew\'92s book.\
"We are very very busy. All of us." said Pethergrew, flicking a midge away from his face.\
"No help then?"\
"You're a clever boy Toby, you can figure out how to keep the place running for a week or so cant you? After that we\'92ll knw what the Nazi\'92s want to do and\'85 well things will work out I am sure.\'94\
It seemed to Toby that the Vicar knew something was going to happen soon, but he wasn't going to give anything away. \
"Of course we can manage. We can manage better than we could with Finch around!"\
Pethergrew smiled, "So what's the problem?"\
"We thought the Church might look after us, Vicar."\
"Well we haven't thrown you out on the street have we? Not yet at least." Pethergrew smiled a deep and clever smile, like he had just won a game of chess. "Now run along Toby, I am sure you have plenty to do."\
And with that Pethergrew shooed him away with his hand and went back to his book.\
That was it then, the Church had abandoned them too. The one institution that had come to their aid had now thrown them away. His cheeks burning with anger, Toby spun on his heel and walked away. \
Pethergrew called out to him, "And you'll have to pay for your own newspapers from now on."\
Toby didn't bother replying, he just kept walking back to the Orphanage wondering how he was going to break the news. They really were on their own.}