{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Despite what Pethergrew said the newspapers did turn up the next morning. And it turned out that Toby was not the only person in Britain who thought the German victory was too easy. The papers were full of articles calling for popular revolt and asking people to form unofficial militia to combat the Germans. Some had only disgust at the King's
\i  abandonment of the country
\i0  a while others praised him for taking 
\i the only sensible option
\i0 , and pointed out that if the King was captured then Britain really would be sunk. \
 \
Toby read reports of  army units fighting on despite the surrender and of ordinary people attacking the Germans with whatever they had. There were some civilians in Essex who were blowing up bridges and parking tractors on roads to slow the German advance. Someone had even cut the power cables to several airfields that the Germans controlled.\
It was both thrilling and scary at the same time. Even more than yesterday Toby thought they should do something to the Germans, but he had no idea what a bunch if kids could do.\
 \
And he didn't get a chance to think about it all day. Robin, June and Toby were kept busy sorting out problems. \
First they needed a shopping list for things like toilet paper and new dishcloths. Then they had to make rotas for all the household tasks that needed doing, making sure they were being fair to everyone. You couldn't expect wee Mae to scrape ashes out of fireplaces and lug them out to the allotment compost pile. Finally they had to decide what to do about school. They all agreed that school should continue, though the hours would be shorter.\
June volunteered to run it. "I'll have these kids reading and writing in no time." she said and spent the afternoon tutting and shaking her head as she read through Mrs Finch's lesson plans.\
 Later on Toby and Robin looked through the house accounts, all kept in a big ledger book. Robin was sharp with figures and after an hour working out what all the numbers meant he was able to show Toby how much of the Parish's money Finch had been wasting on luxuries. Pure beeswax soap, endless mystery novels, fine writing paper, 'Dr Mogwai's Tonic' and a weekly bottle of champagne. \
"If I take out all the luxuries I can work out how much money we really need to keep this place going." said Robin, \'93Why don't you leave that to me?\'94 he added, shooing Toby away.\
Released from the accounts, Toby went to see how Phillip was getting on. \
Toby found him standing in front of the woodpile in the garden.\
\'93We need more big logs for winter Toby, a lot more.\'94 said Phillip, slowly shaking his head. \'93It looks to me like the adults knew they were leaving and didn't bother with this.\'94\
\'93Ok,\'94 said Toby, \'93Let's go and get some more then, you and me!\'94\
Phillip nodded, and they headed off to the back shed to get the axes out. \
\
When they got there they discovered that the shed was locked. \
"We could chop the door down." said Phillip, excitedly.\
"What will we use to chop the door down Phillip?" said Toby.\
"Axes!"\
"And where are the axes Phil?" \
Toby watched as Phillip worked it out. \
"Oh\'85 yes, I see the problem." said Phillip, sheepishly.\
They went back to the house and searched it top to bottom looking for keys. An hour later they had a collection of scraps of paper, an old ring, fifteen Agatha Christie novels and a couple of discarded notebooks. But no keys.\
"Braithwaite must have taken them with him." said Phillip.\
They went back to the door and checked to see if they could remove the bolts that held the door to the hinges, but the thing was solid.\
"Ok," said Toby "We're going to drill some holes around the lock and then saw it out. If we keep the door intact it will keep the foxes out."\
Phillip nodded, went back to the house, rattled around in the basement, and returned with the tools they needed. They took turns, but still it took ages to bore through the hardwood with the hand-drill, and then cut from hole to hole with the small keyhole saw.\
Finally, at four o'clock, they got the axes out of the shed. Phillip said he would miss dinner and go and do a firewood run by himself, but Toby insisted that he went along as well. You couldn't have children going about by themselves in the Forest, no matter how strong they were. \
Together they pulled the biggest wheel barrow out of the shed, then started the half-mile walk to Epping Forest. \
\
After five minutes walking along Forest Road they reached the bottom of the hill. Phillip and Toby slowly pushed the barrow up the hill, one of them on each side. They went up through the short cut under the railway, then past the upper Walthamstow allotments until finally they reached the street at the top of the hill.  \
On one side of the street were houses, on the other long lush grass. Toby could see the forest stretching out for miles to the north, the many shades of green tumbling together in the afternoon sun.\
It was late afternoon now and the light slanted into the trees from the West. The leaves were still green but soon they would turn red then orange. In a couple of months they would fall to the ground making an ankle-deep carpet of bright yellow. \
Toby turned back and looked back down the hill and past the orphanage. He could see the taller buildings of The City of London in the distance, a row of dark blocks on the horizon. Toby had had only been into The City a few times, and that was a couple of years ago now, when Mr Cage was in charge. Mr Cage thought the children needed to see something of London and once a year they all took the train down to Liverpool Street to visit a church or a museum. \
Toby remembered how busy it was down there with people pushing themselves around the children as if they weren't there. He could still hear the  paper boys yelling out the news and see the smartly dressed people looking like they were going somewhere important. He'd even seen a Rolls Royce once, a monster of a thing, shiny and glinting in the light like a mirror. The drivers uniform had gold epaulettes on the shoulders, which he had found very impressive but had only made Mr Cage laugh.\
This was the steepest, highest hill around and it always amazed Toby that trams came up it. He heard one now, clattering and banging its way to the top. When they took off back down it they looked like they might leap the tracks, or fail to stop at the busy cross roads at the bottom of the hill. But somehow they always managed to come to a halt at the red lights, the drivers looking relaxed, as if there were nothing to be worrying about. The passengers didn't even look up from their papers or stop chatting as the trams ground to a halt.\
\
Philip grunted and Toby turned in towards the dense trees and they began their hunt for dead wood. \
Most houses used coal these days which was easier to light and lasted longer - and people were happy to pay the coal man to carry it out to them. But the right to pull dead wood off common-land was ancient - and it was free that way. \
Phillip set down the barrow, picked up an axe like it weighed nothing and pulled up his sleeves. "Right Toby," he said, "time for some real work!"\
An hour later, while was resting his aching arms and  watching Phillip swing his axe, Toby had an idea of how he might welcome the Germans to Walthamstow. \

\i Very good!
\i0  said Esme.\
Toby looked around, had she followed him up into the forest?\
No, there was no one else up here but Phillip and Toby. \
Was she reading his mind again? \
Feeling a bit stupid Toby said some words in his mind, 
\i Are you there Esme?
\i0  \
He listened carefully but all he could hear was the steady chopping of wood. He must have been imagining things.\
\
It took them over an hour to fill the barrow. Toby reckoned he'd only chopped a quarter of the wood and he had a new respect for Phillip's strength and his skill with the axe. Phillip looked like he could do it all again three times over, but Toby was stiff and sore. When Phillip offered to push the heavy barrow back down the hill  Toby didn't put up much of a fight.\
By the time they got back, it was dark and dinner time was over. After stacking the wood against the wall outside the kitchen, Toby went to see if there was any bread left. He thought he might make them both a sandwich. \
Vera was in the kitchen, sitting on a high stool by the stove, stirring the pot with one hand, the other holding a book open on her lap.\
"Hi!" said Toby.\
Vera jumped, "Toby!" the book slid off her lap and onto the floor, "You scared me!"\
"Sorry," he said, and bent down to pick up her book, giving her an apologetic smile as he handed it back to her.\
"Look, we kept you some dinner." Vera banged the side of the pot with the wooden spoon, "Vegetable stew."\
"Thanks Vera, that's very kind." said Toby, though he wasn't excited about vegetable stew, again.\
"Esme said you'd be late, but next time you should tell me, otherwise I'll worry." For a moment she looked like she had said something wrong, "I mean we will all worry. We don't want to lose anyone do we?"\
"No." agreed Toby. She seemed rattled and Toby couldn't figure out why.\
Vera jumped down off the stool, ladled stew into two bowls and set them down on the big wooden table in the middle of the kitchen. She gave them spoons and a square of bread with butter.\
The stew was wonderful, much nicer than usual. "This is great Vera, what did you do to it?" asked Toby.\
"Oh," said Vera, looking embarrassed, "This and that. More herbs."\
"More care." said Phillip. \
He was right, it tasted like someone cared about it. "You're a really good cook Vera." said Toby.\
Vera blushed and turned to tidy up some cutlery that was already as tidy as it could be.\
\
After they had washed their dishes Toby and Phillip went their separate ways. Looking for Esme, Toby passed through each of the new common rooms. \
Children were sitting reading, playing cards, or doing homework. Despite all the uncertainty they faced no one looked scared or worried. He felt a small glow of pride then, they would show Pethergrew they could cope by themselves. No, they would do better than cope, they would thrive.\
\
He found Esme in Finch's study, sketching on a big pad she must have found amongst his things.\
"How about this then?" she said, holding the paper up to him.\
It was a picture of exactly what he'd been thinking about for the Germans. Esme was a skilful artist and she had caught everything perfectly. The surprised faces of the soldiers, the chaos of splintered wood and people everywhere.\
"I have no idea if we can make that work." said Toby. "And it might hurt someone."\
"Yes," said Esme, "that's true, but then again it will send a mighty message won't it?"}