{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 "What are you going to do?" \
"We've got to immobilise the tram, get rid of the driver then start it up again right?"\
Toby nodded. "Then I can drive it."\
Robin nodded. "That's the dangerous bit."\
"The dangerous bit is being seen and identified. If anyone sympathetic to the Germans sees us and dobs us in we are well and truly dead."\
Robin nodded and quickly looked away. \
Luckily neither of them had a moment to think about what would happen if they were caught by the  Germans because they heard the sound of a tram rumbling along the tracks. After a couple of minutes grinding up the hill it came to stop right in front of them.\
There were no passengers on it so the only person who got out of the tram was the driver. He was a big, round fellow who took a long time to lower himself down to the road. He waved to them and then lit a big pipe. It was a nice day, cool but still, and his pipe smoke went straight up into the air in big, rum-scented billows.\
Toby went and introduced himself, saying that he was doing a school project on London Transport. He asked the driver to show him how a tram worked.\
"Well," said the man, stroking his beard, looking more like a sea captain than a tram driver, "it's not allowed in the rules you know."\
"I appreciate that sir. I won't touch anything. If you show me all the levers I will stand well clear. I'd be ever so grateful." Toby gave him a winning smile.\
The driver looked out to the East. "The school project will be the last of your worries in a couple of hours son."\
Toby nodded and then bit his lip really hard, hard enough to bring a tear to his eye. "Whatever you say sir."\
The driver looked at him, saw the tear and made a huffing sound. "Come on now son, it's not that bad\'85"\
"No sir." said Toby in his most pathetic voice.\
"Are you scared?"\
Toby nodded and tried to look brave.\
The big man sighed, "Come on then, let me show you how a tram works, take your mind off things eh?"\
Toby nodded, looking pleased and grateful. As he climbed onto the tram he looked for Robin, but couldn't see him.\
\
Toby sat across from the driver as he showed him all the levers and buttons. There was a tiller for steering, which you only used where two lines crossed. There was a wheel that controlled the motor. There was another lever for the brakes and buttons for lights and doors opening and, of course, the bell, which the driver let Toby ring a couple of times.\
Then, after listening to the man's stories about times he'd nearly killed some crazy pedestrian, or saved someone's life, it was time for the tram to leave.\
Toby thanked the driver profusely for his help and got off the Tram, waving.\
The driver dinged the bell, released the brake and wound the accelerator wheel, expecting the tram to launch forward.\
But nothing happened. The tram stayed still.\
"Everything all right?" called Toby from the side of the road.\
"Blasted thing won't work!" called back the driver, his face flushing with frustration. \
He tried any number of combinations of buttons and levers but no matter what he did the tram remained resolutely fixed to the spot. \
After a few minutes he got out and did a circuit of the outside, though what he was looking for Toby couldn't say. Then the driver ducked his head and looked under the tram. \
With a shock Toby realised that that is where Robin would be. Sure enough, a moment later, Robin rolled out on the opposite side and scuttled over the road, past Toby and into the trees at the edge of the Forest.\
"That's strange." said the driver, coming back around to Toby's side, "I thought I saw something under the tram. Did you see anything? An animal?"\
"No," said Toby, shaking his head, "just me and the trees on this side sir."\
The driver grunted, then threw his hands in the air.\
"What will you do sir?"\
"I'll have to go back to the depot. I'll walk down the hill and catch a tram up Wood Street."\
Toby nodded, then watched as the driver closed the front door of the tram and locked it with a key. The he lit his pipe, waved good bye and started walking down the hill, rolling along like a nautical Santa.\
 \
"How did you stop the tram?" asked Toby as Robin came out of the trees, dragging a canvas bag behind him.\
Robin smiled, looking mightily pleased with himself, "It's a very simple system actually. The electricity travels long the wire above the road, the big arm connects the wire to the electric engine. All I did was take the arm off the wire so there was no electricity going through the system then crawled under and undid the main wire. We just reverse that to get it going again."\
"Good man!" said Toby, genuinely impressed.\
The lock on the door presented no great problems for Robin and soon they were inside. A couple of minutes after that and Robin had got the electricity hooked up again. \
"Over to you Toby." said Robin and he gave Toby a friendly slap on the shoulder before stepping back onto the pavement, "Good luck!"\
"Thanks!" said Toby, waving goodbye and half wishing that Robin could stay. But Robin needed to go down and tell Esme that the everything was ready to go. She would get the orphanage children out into the road. Then they would be ready to watch the German's make their triumphal parade down Forest road and past the Town Hall. \
Toby locked the front door of the tram behind him, then opened his canvas bag and pulled out some cricket gear - some big kneepads and batting gloves. Once he'd strapped them on, he sat on the floor of the tram, below the level of the windows so he couldn't be seen. Now he would wait until he saw the Germans.\
An hour later, just as Toby thought they might never come, he heard a distant sound, a mix of machines, grumbling and crushing. Over the next twenty minutes the sound got louder, coming up the hill like a steel tide, until he could make out the sounds inside it. There were tracks squeaking and clanking onto asphalt, the revving of diesel engines and horns blasting in triumph. \
Looking down the hill he could see a brown haze of fumes rising above the houses on Wood St as they got closer. That was good, they were coming the right way, right into the intersection.\
Feeling sick with nerves Toby climbed into the drivers seat, trying not to snag his cricket gear on all the levers. Sitting there, looking straight down the hill, he wondered if this was such a good idea. \
Before he had time to think about chickening out the head of the German column came into view.\
It was a terrifying sight, even from this far away. Truck after truck drove along the road, their backs open, each with twenty or more soldiers on them, bristling with guns. Then there were half-track armoured personnel carriers and after that the big tanks. They were huge, bigger than anything Toby had ever seen and there must have been three hundred or more. With the dust and haze rising around them they looked like beasts of death, the image of hell itself.\
The good news was they were turning right from Wood Street onto Forest Road. That should make picking his moment easier. What he wanted to do was hit a command vehicle. A tram wouldn't do much damage to a tank, but it might cut right through a truck or a command car. \
Like an axe through wood.\
Eventually the tanks all passed and the column started to thin down to ordinary transport trucks and cars. Toby took some deep breaths, closed his eyes and tried to relax. He made his mind as blank as it could be, imagining it was an empty and silent stage waiting for an actor to come on and start the show.\
After waiting for what seemed like an hour but could only have been a couple of minutes he heard Esme's voice. It was loud and clear, like she was standing right next to him.\

\i Now Toby, now!
\i0 \
Toby opened his eyes, pulled back on the brake lever and turned the accelerator wheel forward. \
\
The tram surged up to speed surprisingly quickly. By the time Toby had pulled himself clear of all the levers and got to the front door the tram was already on the crest of the hill. He looked down at the road as he stood at the open door \'96 they were going too fast. But he knew once it got on the hill proper it would be going even faster. He had to jump, the sooner the better.\
\
The cricket pads took some of the impact but it was still like taking a running jump into an empty swimming pool. The shock was intense, like in one of those dreams where you think you are falling to the ground and you wake up to realise you are ok. Only he didn\'92t wake up.\
After the initial bash of hitting the road he rolled over and over, pieces of padding and body hitting the road in a jumble of painful sensations, until he came to rest by the footpath.\
\
Laying on his back for a moment, he waited for the sky and clouds to stop spinning above him. He took a gulp of air and braced himself against the waves of pain moving around his body, gritting his teeth and pressing his eyes closed against tears. \
He became aware that Esme was trying to talk to him but he couldn\'92t relax enough to let her voice into his mind. Instead  he tried moving his arms and legs and wiggled all his fingers and toes to make sure nothing was broken. Yes, everything hurt \'96 his knees, his elbows, his bottom, his head, his shoulders, even his feet \'96 but he was alive. \
Finally he could relax enough to talk to Esme.\

\i Hurt but ok. 
\i0 He said.\

\i Chaos down here, they are starting to wonder who did it, get out of there! 
\i0 She replied.\
Getting up and walking was the last thing he felt like doing, but he slowly pulled himself to his feet and staggered off the road and hid behind a garden wall. He pulled the cricket pads off, threw them into a bush and started to walk as best he could, trying not to bellow from the pain, taking shortcuts and backstreets so that he didn\'92t go near the main road.\
\
When he got back to the orphanage Esme was waiting for him out the back. She gasped in shock when she saw him. For the first time Toby looked at his clothes and saw that they were covered in the blood that had soaked through from his grazes. Esme ducked inside, made sure the coast was clear and then snuck him up the stairs to the attic. She already had a bowl of disinfectant, some iodine solution and bandages all ready to go. He gingerly pulled off his clothes and she started the long and painful job of pulling the bits of gravel out of his wounds with tweezers and dressing them with the stinking purple iodine. \
As she worked Esme told him what had happened after he had leaped from the speeding tram. The plan had worked perfectly. \
By the time the Germans saw the empty tram coming towards them it was too late. Some soldiers managed to jump off trucks and some managed to fire a shot or two at it, but the tram kept speeding up and rammed through the back of the column. It went straight into the back of the commander\'92s car, shattering it into splinters.\
After that all hell broke loose. Soldiers nearby filled the tram with machine gun fire, reducing the wooden frame to matchwood. Esme saw soldiers clustered around the command car, trying to pull someone out. Meanwhile the whole column came to a halt, the German's triumphant entry into London ruined. Then soldiers came up to the children and told them to leave the scene. \
Deciding that it wasn't a good idea to draw attention to themselves, Esme bustled all the children back to the Orphanage. All the children were very excited by the crash and they had wondered who had been brave enough, or stupid enough, to do it.\
Toby had to laugh, even though it hurt. Brave or stupid? That was a very good question.\
\
After he was cleaned up Esme let the other Walthamstow Reds into the attic. Toby still looked pretty bad. His forearms were wrapped in bandages and his face was bruised where he had bashed it against the back of his cricket gloves.\
\'93That was amazing!\'94 said Phillip. "Does it hurt?"\
Toby smiled bravely and nodded.\
"I'll do you a poultice Toby." said Vera.\
"Thanks." said Toby, smiling as best he could, not really sure what a poultice was, \'94That would be great."\
"It was really impressive." said Robin. \'93A great show all round.\'94\
Robin went on to tell them how he hid behind a low wall  on Forest Road and watched for a whole hour as Germans were patched up by the medical team. A German ambulance turned up and two stretchers were pulled out of the wreckage. Robin thought they might have been dead they were lying so still. One of them had a lot of badges pinned to his tunic and a black cross around his neck where most men would wear a tie. Robin thought he must have been a general. \
Eventually another man wearing less medals came to the scene and took control, barking out commands in German and pointing into the nearby streets. Teams of soldiers started to form. Some of them had dogs, big barking Alsatians. Robin thought this was a good time to leave the scene. \
"Oh my goodness." said June in a hushed tone, "You might have killed someone."\
Toby felt a little sick then, and he went one shade whiter, "I know June. But there is a war on you know." \
He smiled, trying to look braver and more resolute than he felt, \'93And we showed them something didn't we? We showed them that we can fight back. At least a little."\
"Bravo Toby." said Esme, and she gave her brother a kiss on the forehead which he was too slow and too hurt to avoid}