{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Even though things were tense for the Walthamstow Reds for the next couple of days no Germans came knocking at the door. They had bigger things to do. \
The German armies had met in a giant rally in Trafalgar Square, and from there Nazi officers walked into the government buildings on Whitehall to take control.\
The next day the papers led with the story that this new territory would be known as \'91Germania\'92. June pointed out that this was a mix of Germany and Britannia and so was quite clever really. No one else thought so.\
The newspapers changed overnight. They had the same names but there were no more reports of resistance to the Germans. The only news they printed was how great the German's were going to be for the country. That, and lots of photos of Germans standing next to the English collaborators. There were a lot of collaborators:  Actors, politicians, industrial chiefs, broadcasters, even some in the military. \
Over the next few days there were announcements about who would take over various public functions. The German's changed everyone at the top of every institution you could think of, from the Bank of England through to the Railways, then the head of Education. They even changed the Archbishop of Canterbury, the top man in the church, to a bishop they had in their pocket. What did the Church of England and the Nazi\'92s have in common? It was hard to fathom.\
\
But despite all these horrible changes life in the orphanage carried on as normal. The children were running the house and doing a very good job of it. All the autumn crops were harvested and they were drowning in root vegetables. \
One day Esme took the whole Orphanage on the train to Epping where they each picked pounds and pounds of blackberries. That evening they had fresh blackberry pudding, two helpings each.\
The next day the whole dining room became a jam making factory and all the children had great fun making up hundreds of jars of jam. Vera got all the young children making labels with cute drawings on them. Then she carefully wrote 'Orphan's Jam - for the children of St Mary's' using Mrs Finch's fountain pen before gluing the labels on with flour paste. The jars looked  handsome standing in their rows to dry. Robin figured they could sell half of what they made and make enough money to keep them going for two months.\
Early the next morning, Robin, Vera and Phillip loaded up two barrows with jars and trundled them down to the market. Robin had already arranged to rent out a traders stall for the day for a good rate, so all they had to do was set the jars out and start selling. They sold out in under two hours, making enough money to keep them all going for a month.\
They were all busy and, despite the invasion, it was a happy time. Everything went along smoothly for two weeks, then three. The country was changing but nothing happened out in Walthamstow.  Maybe nothing would change at all under the German's? Perhaps life might go on as it always had, just with bad newspapers and German songs on the radio.\
\
Then, one day just after lunch, the large brass knocker on the front door was hammered against the wood three times. It was loud enough that everyone stopped what they were doing and listened, terrified.\
Could it be the Germans? Toby and Esme looked at each other, then went to the door together and unlocked the door.\
Standing there was Pethergrew, a curious smile on his face. The smile didn't worry Toby though, what worried him was that Pethergrew was holding a cricket pad in his hand. One of the ones he had got rid of after he jumped off the tram.\
"Missing something Toby?" asked Pethergrew.\
"I'd love a cup of tea Esme." said Pethergrew, pushing past Toby and Esme uninvited, "White three sugars."\
Toby and Esme followed him down the hall and into the dining room where he stopped at the doorway and looked around. Esme ducked out to the kitchen, leaving Toby to sit with Pethergrew.\
"You are doing a good job aren't you?"\
"We're trying sir." said Toby, warily.\
Pethergrew leaned in and gave him a wink. \'93Don\'92t worry about the cricket gear, I\'92ll keep it safe. Luckily you didn\'92t kill anyone, though they were mighty alarmed.\'94\
\'93I don\'92t know what you\'92re talking about sir.\'94\
\'93Of course not! You really are a nuisance aren\'92t you?\'94 Pethergrew said, laughing. He seemed to think the whole thing was a good joke. \'93Must say if they knew it was a boy, a scrawny little English kid, who pulled off that stunt they would be horrified. And angry. Those military types don\'92t have much of a sense of humour.\'94\
Toby shrugged, looking to the kitchen to see if the tea was coming.\
\'93Would you like to see the accounts sir?\'94 he asked.\
\'93Books?\'94 Pethergrew looked uninterested.\
\'93Robin Penn is doing them sir. He\'92s good with figures.\'94\
Pethergrew sighed, \'93Show them to me then.\'94\
Toby got up, grateful he didn\'92t have to speak for a minute. He climbed the stairs to the study, and went to pick up the heavy ledger book when he realised that his hands were shaking. Pethergrew knew he had ran a tram into the German column, but didn\'92t seem to mind. But how had he found out? Had one of the congregation seen him do it? Toby realised that whatever the answer it meant that the Vicar had a lot of power over him. If he told the Germans about it Toby could expect to be treated badly. Toby thought about his week in solitary and, while he had survived it unharmed, he didn\'92t want to spend any more time in a cell.\
He also realised there wasn\'92t anything he could about it. The best thing was to deny it and try to convince Pethergrew they were doing well. Maybe then he would leave them alone.\
\
By the time Toby got down stairs Esme had put a cup of tea in front of Pethergrew. Beside it was two rounds of toast,  lavishly spread with their home made jam.\
\'93Delicious!\'94 said the Vicar, spitting crumbs over the table and not bothering to apologise. \'93This is excellent jam Esme, excellent!\'94\
\'93We\'92ll get you some for your wife.\'94 said Esme, smiling broadly. Too broadly, Toby could tell she didn\'92t trust him either.\
They waited while Pethergrew slowly chewed through the toast and slurped his tea as he casually flicked through the ledger book in front of him. From time to time he muttered "Very good very good."\
\'93Well...\'94 he said, wiping his jammy fingers on the table cloth, \'93You must be wondering why I am here.\'94\
Toby\'92s stomach lurched with dread - was he about to be exposed?\
Esme spoke to cover Toby\'92s nervous silence, \'93Yes sir, it must be about more than jam?\'94\
\'93Ha!\'94 Pethergrew laughed, \'93Yes, indeed it is.\'94\
He leaned right forward and spoke in a low whisper, \'93It\'92s about the Germans and what they want to do with you.\'94\
\'93Do with us?\'94 said Esme, \'93Why would they want to do anything with us?\'94\
Pethergrew sat back in his chair, looking pleased with himself, as if he was enjoying their discomfort. \'93The Germans, yes. They want to do things to Walthamstow. They came to see me.\'94 Pethergrew puffed his chest out in the way that people who feel important by association do, \'93They have big plans.\'94\
\'93What plans?\'94 said Esme, her voice saturated with anxiety.\
\'93I told them they could do what they like, they won the war didn\'92t they!\'94 Pethergrew continued , ignoring Esme\'92s question.\
Toby spoke up, cutting across Pethergrew, \'93What plans sir?\'94\
Pethergew didn\'92t like being interrupted. His face went pink around the cheeks and his finger worked at his collar, trying to let in some air as he continued, loud and aggressive. \'93Big plans, is that good enough for you? Well is it?\'94\
Toby nodded, reminding himself not to be cheeky. \'93Yes sir.\'94\
\'93Good!\'94 Pethergrew took a breath and blew into the air like a steam train letting off pressure, \'93And now you have a choice.\'94\
\'93Yes?\'94 said Toby, not able to look at Pethergrew or his sister for all the tension he was feeling in his tummy.\
\'93You can stay here, in the orphanage, or you can leave.\'94\
\'93But,\'94 said Toby, \'93We don\'92t have anywhere to go to. This is our home.\'94\
Pethergrew shook his head, \'93It was your home, but the German\'92s own it now.\'94\
\'93What?!\'94 said Esme, \'93How!\'94\
\'93The Church made a bargain. We keep the churches and the Vicarages and the Germans get everything else. Schools, hospitals, orphanages.\'94\
\'93All the useful things.\'94 muttered Toby.\
\'93No!\'94 snapped Pethergrew, slapping his hand on the table, \'93We kept all the houses of worship, that's the main thing.\'94\
Toby couldn't help himself, \'93I bet the Germans don\'92t see it that way!\'94 he blurted out.\
Pethergrew had moved through all the shades of pink and was now a deep shade of purple. He was shouting now, \'93We retained the right to worship. What would England be like without the right to practice Christianity?!\'94\
That was a big question. While Toby could see that going to church was important he did think it was more important to look after the young, the sick and the unfortunate. But he clamped his jaw shut and said nothing. A quick look at Esme confirmed that she thought the same.\
\'93So,\'94 she said, \'93The Germans own the Orphanage?\'94\
\'93Yes.\'94 Said Pethergrew, calming himself, \'93But only in title. They won\'92t do anything of course, they\'92re not going to barge in here and start putting little German orphans in your place.\'94 he smiled at the thought, \'93Though of course they would be within their rights.\'94\
Esme, usually so calm, was now visibly furious, her mouth twisted like a wrung cloth, \'93What are we meant to do now then?\'94\
Pethergrew took a sip of tea and put the cup down slowly, like he were giving someone advice they might not want to hear. \'93This is what I am trying to tell you, you can go, you are free.\'94 And he smiled, as if this was a great idea.\
\'93Free?\'94 said Toby, \'93We have each other to look after, we have young children who are relying on us.\'94 Toby said the word \'91us\'92 in a way that made it clear he was including Pethergrew. \'93We can\'92t just leave them, what would they do?\'94\
Pethergrew shrugged, \'93I have no idea.\'94\
\'93Well it\'92s not really much of a choice then is it?\'94 said Toby.\
\'93I suppose not.\'94 said Pethergrew trying to keep the enjoyment out of his voice.\
Toby stood up, pushing the bench noisily back with his legs, \'93If this place is owned by the Germans now then you have no right to be here do you?\'94\
Pethergrew looked startled for a moment before he regained his composure. \'93No, you\'92re right, I don\'92t.\'94\
\'93So we would like you to leave now please.\'94\
Pethergrew looked at Toby and clapped, \'93Very good, very good young man. You are a clever thing.\'94\
\'93Out! Now!\'94 growled Toby.\
\'93Or what, you\'92ll set your sister on me?\'94 Pethergrew sneered.\
\'93Phillip!\'94 said Toby, hoping that he would be nearby, drawn to the conversation. In fact Toby was sure that everyone in the orphange was listening to them now.\
\'93Yes Toby?\'94 Phillip walked into the room.\
Pethergrew looked at him and turned pale. Whether he had done it deliberately or not Phillip wore a white apron streaked with red, and his hands were red too, crossed with blood. In his right hand he carried a long curved blade. He must have been slaughtering one of the chickens for the Sunday roast.\
Toby looked Pethergrew in the eye. \'93See this man out will you Phillip?\'94\
Phillip started to walk forward, but Pethergrew darted in front of them all, scooped up the jar of jam and was at the front door in seconds.\
Toby chased him, and, as the Vicar was about to leave, got ready to slam the door in his face. But Pethegrew turned, his distorted with hatred, his voice low and mean, \'93You are a pest Toby, a real pest, but don\'92t worry you can stay here as long as you like, it won\'92t do you or your fellow vermin any good, rats can\'92t leave a sinking ship you know, not without drowning.\'94 And with that he stalked off up the main road, back towards the church, laughing at his own joke.\
Toby returned to the dining room where all children had gathered, Pethergrew\'92s words ringing in his ears.\

\i Rats can\'92t leave a sinking ship, not without drowning.\

\i0 He didn't know what that meant, but it wasn't good, and he thought it would be better to keep those words to himself. Which meant he had to think of something to say now that everyone was looking at him.\
\'93Good news!\'94 he said, trying to sound upbeat and happy, \'93The Orphanage is ours! Ours to keep!\'94\
Only Esme failed to cheer the news, but only she knew why it was theirs.}