{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Toby was counting out vegetables and writing the numbers down in Vera\'92s produce book. She needed to know how much they had of everything so she could plan the winter menus.\
Outside he could see Phillip finishing piling the wood stack. It was taller than it had ever been. They had enough wood to keep the many fireplaces in the house going for months now.\
Phillip was planning to fix up some of the beds and furniture over the winter. June said he should be using winter to learn to write better, but Phillip quietly ignored her. He knew that his talents with his hands were as good and useful as hers with her language and books.\
June was upstairs now, running the other children through their paces on mathematics.\
Toby had promised June that he would go up for lessons when he had finished counting vegetables. Now that he had finished he didn't have a reason to stay out of class anymore. He would have to go up, it was only fair.\
He sighed and poured himself a glass of water, crushing a leaf of mint into it to make it tasty, and took it out to the dining room for a moment of quiet. As long a moment as he could justify before going upstairs and stepping into the class room.\
He didn\'92t like it much up there, it seemed that there was always chalk dust hanging in the air and getting into your eyes.\
Down here in the dining room it was relaxing. The weak afternoon sun washed through the windows and over the new tablecloths Vera made from some old curtains. They were bright and cheery, a mix of stripes and flower prints in bold colours. Each table had a vase on it and Vera would go around before dinner and place a single stem in each one. With the new tablecloths and the flowers the food seemed to shine and glitter in the candle light, like every meal was a Christmas feast. Things were so much better without the Finch's.\
He sighed. He still didn't want to go upstairs. If he was being honest with himself it was because Esme was up there. Every time he saw her she gave him a stern and disapproving look, reminding him that he had lied about the ownership of the orphanage.\
Toby had tried to talk to her about it but she had changed the subject, or claimed to be too busy to talk. What was he supposed to do? Tell everyone they didn\'92t have a safe home anymore? He just wanted everyone to be happy.\
And what would the Germans want with the orphanage anyway? With any luck they wouldn\'92t even notice they had it. There must be hundreds of orphanages in England, and they had so much else to do running a whole new country, why should they care about this one? They wouldn't. Esme was blowing things out of proportion.\
\
Just as he was about to get up and go to the classroom he heard the front door slam, the glass rattling in the frame. Who was that?\
Robin burst into the dining room, frantically looking around for people. \'93So there you are!\'94 he said, as if Toby had been hiding from him.\
Toby was about to tell him off when he realised Robin was scared. His eyes were flaring with alarm and his face was red and blotchy. Robin was never scared - something must be horribly wrong.\
\'93Down at the market... tanks... trucks... they\'92ve come Toby, they\'92ve come back...\'94\
Robin pulled at Toby\'92s shirt, trying to make him go with him, but Toby refused to budge. Instead he sat Robin down and gave him the glass of water. After a few gulps Robin started to settle down. He tried to speak a few times but he was so flustered that nothing came out.\
Toby was worried now. What could be so bad that it would make Robin speechless? \'93Please tell me Rob, put me out of my misery won\'92t you...\'94\
Rob shook his head, \'93You need to see it.\'94\
Before he knew what was happening he heard a voice in his head. \
It was Esme.\

\i What\'92s wrong Toby?\
Don\'92t know, Robin wants to show me something outside. Something\'92s up.\
OK. Stay safe\
Will do, bye
\i0 \
Toby blinked. He\'92d just had a whole conversation with Esme, as if she were standing right next to him.\
\'93You alright Toby?\'94 said Robin, looking at him strangely.\
\'93Yes.\'94 said Toby, shaking himself, \'93let\'92s go then.\'94\
\
Ten minutes later they were standing in the market looking at a strange sight. A brick wall was being built from one side of the main street to the other. It was only four foot high at the moment, but there were a dozen brick layers working on it and by the end of the day it might reach eight foot or more.\
\'93What are they up to?\'94 asked Toby, baffled.\
\'93I don\'92t know. Why don\'92t you go and ask them.\'94 said Robin, pointing to the workmen.\
Toby walked forward, right to the wall and asked the closest worker, a gruff looking man the shape of a barrel, \'93What are you doing?\'94\
\'93Building a ruddy wall, what\'92s it look like?\'94 The man didn\'92t even stop to look at Toby, he just kept putting on brick after brick, as quick as he could.\
\'93I\'92ve got that,\'94 said Toby, trying not to get impatient, \'93but why?\'94\
\'93Why?!\'94 said the man, finally stopping and looking at Toby, \'93Because there\'92s a man behind me pointing a gun at me, that\'92s why! Now push off!\'94\
Toby was startled by the mans aggression and stepped back. Then he looked past the wall and saw a small German staff car, like the one he'd put the tram through. Next to it stood two soldiers wearing long grey coats, each with a snub-nosed machine gun slung around their shoulder. It was hard to see their faces beneath the deep shadows cast by the rims on their steel helmets, but they didn\'92t look happy. Toby turned and walked back to Robin.\
\'93Are there any more?\'94 Toby asked.\
Robin\'92s bony shoulders lifted up around his ears, \'93I dunno Toby, I just saw this and thought you ought to know.\'94\
Toby nodded. \'93Let\'92s find out shall we?\'94\
Robin nodded and they turned to the left and started to walk away from the market.\
\
It was easy to see where the wall was going. You only had to look for the piles of bricks and rubble that had been dropped in the middle of streets to see that.\
"Can you see what they're doing?" said Robin.\
"Building a load of walls?" said Toby, trying not to sound cranky.\
"No no." said Robin, "It's really clever. If you think of a terrace of houses as a wall, then all you have to do is brick off the end of the street to create an enclosure."\
Toby nodded. Sometimes Robin was really quick and clever.\
They followed the piles in a broad sweep that took them up towards their Church, then over to Shernall St where the piles stopped. They doubled back to the market, then walked the other way, following the bricks back up towards Forest Road.\
As they walked up to the Town Hall they saw a whole convoy of German trucks that had appeared from nowhere around the back of the allotment. This was the only place where Walthamstow was open to the countryside. It would take an age to build a wall across there, but the Germans must have figured that out. They had another solution in the trucks, Toby was sure of it.\
In the hour that they had been walking around people were stepping out of their houses and looking quizzically at the heaps of bricks on the ends of their streets. You could see them working it out as they strolled around, chattering to each other.\
The Germans were building walls in a circle to make an enclosure.\
Toby suddenly realised the full horror of what was happening. "They're building a wall. A wall right around Walthamstow."\
Robin nodded back. "There's only two reasons to build a wall Toby." he whispered.\
Toby nodded, \'93To keep things out, like a castle. To protect things inside it."\
"Or to keep things inside, by force.\'94\
There wasn\'92t any doubt in Toby\'92s mind which of those it would be.\
The Germans were turning Walthamstow into a prison.\
The question on Toby's mind was whether the orphanage was going to be on the inside or the outside of that wall. Was that what Pethergrew had been talking about? \
Were they going to be prisoners? And if so, was it all his fault?}